Imperialism casts a long shadow over Africa, and much of that shadow is a result of the way the imperial powers drew their borders. Lord Salisbury famously put it "we have been engaged in drawing lines upon maps where no white man’s feet have ever trod; we have been giving away mountains and rivers and lakes to each other, only hindered by the small impediment that we never knew exactly where the mountains and rivers and lakes were." But when the borders had been drawn and agreed they were set; administrators who suggested they should be tweaked to reflect ethnic groupings were rebuffed. [1]

Colonial powers could live with artificial borders; they were not too concerned with the comings and goings of the natives and could make sure that no conflict would break out over odd borders that frankly they did not care about. With decolonisation however artificial borders became much more of an issue. London or Paris might not have been concerned about African borders but Yaoundé and Rabat were much more likely to be. Borders were not only much closer and have a greater impact on policy but ensuring sovereignty right up to the border was a way of creating a nation state. Thus the new leaders were no more inclined to rethink borders than the old. The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) Charter highlights a determination “to safeguard… sovereignty and territorial integrity” in the preamble, the purposes, and the principles of the OAU. [2] As a result this issue is still an immense problem; the border between Togo and Ghana alone divides the Dagomba, Akposso, Konkomba and Ewe peoples. [3]

Ratner suggests that new states should only preserve the status quo on borders until the states can resolve the competing claims so colonial era borders should not be taken as immutable. The assumption then is that there will be changes to the administrative legacy at some point. [4] But this does not address borders that are already half a century old. Redefining African borders would seem to imply just redrawing existing borders but in practice doing so while not allowing an opportunity for the creation of new states would be difficult. The proposal therefore would be that current borders are not set; there should be commissions that find the ethnic borders between states and those ethnicities should be able to decide which state they join. Where there are strong independence movements this would also be a chance to create new states but the default assumption should be that ethnic groups want to remain in their current state unless this is clearly disputed so as to not mean a chaotic breakup of Africa as we know it.

[1] Michalopoulos, 2011, p.3

[2] OAU, 1963

[3] Cogneau, 2012, pp.5-6

[4] Ratner, 1996, p.617-8
