With the dawn of the internet, people are able to communicate with unprecedented degrees of anonymity: the ability to send messages, make statements, or take actions with little or no potential to be personally identified in doing so. Many social media sites, forums, and message boards allow users to post using only a username that is virtually impossible to trace back to their real life identity. Some, such as 4chan, even pride themselves on preserving the absolute anonymity of their users. There has only been one large scale attempt to push back against anonymity by banning it, this was in South Korea. South Korea from 2007 had a law that forced internet users to use their real names and government id numbers in order to comment on all websites with more than 100,000 users, but a constitutional court ruled against it in 2012 saying it violated freedom of speech. [1] There are however much more limited attempts in other countries to make sure that anonymity does not lead to an increase in defamation, in the UK for example the 2013 Defamation law forces websites to give up a perpetrators users details in defamation cases. [2]

As with any internet based debates, you should be very careful about specifying the actor if you are opening the debate: remember that the internet is not controlled by any single governing force. That said most prominent websites will comply with the demands of governments, particularly the United States government where the majority of major websites are based, as they are at genuine risk of being shut down due to the fact that, in most cases, the owners are well known. Even in the cases of less prominent or compliant websites, they will at least be under more pressure to prevent anonymous posting as it will be easier for governments to shut them down or prevent access to them in their own country. With most websites not allowing anonymous posting, it will be very difficult for most individuals to engage in anonymous online activity.

A sensible proposition could be the government making it illegal for websites to allow anonymous posting, and threatening those that do not comply with legal action, such as hefty fines, closure, or total national censorship. Also banning individuals from posting anonymously is advisable, though this would be largely symbolic as it would be very difficult to enforce.

[1] ‘Court deals blow to South Korean law outing Internet users’, Los Angeles Times, http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/08/court-deals-blow-to-south-korean-law-outing-internet-users-.html

[2] ‘UK's New Defamation Law May Accelerate The Death Of Anonymous User-Generated Content Internationally’, Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/sites/ericgoldman/2013/05/09/uks-new-defamation-law-may-accelerate-the-death-of-anonymous-user-generated-content-internationally/
