The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is one of the main institutions of the United Nations. It was created after WWII to maintain international peace and security. Based on its founding charter (the United Nations Charter), it has the power to establish peacekeeping missions, impose international sanctions, and can authorise military action against a sovereign state.

The UNSC has fifteen members. There are five permanent (P5) members (China, France, Russia, the UK and the USA) wielding veto power, and ten elected non-permanent members with two-year terms, half of whom are replaced each year. These elected members are chosen by the United Nations Regional Groups. The ‘African group’ chooses three members; the ‘Latin America and the Caribbean group’, the ‘Asian group’, and the ‘Western European and Others’ group choose two members each. The Eastern European group chooses one member. Finally, the tenth of these members will be an Arab country, alternately from the Asian or African group. The European Union (EU) is an economic and political union, currently consisting of 27 member states, including two permanent members of the UNSC: France and the UK. Originally, the EU was created mainly for closer economic cooperation, but political goals have been added along the way. One of these political goals is to create a common security and foreign policy. Until the end of 2009 (when the Treaty of Lisbon came to effect), one of the three official ‘pillars’ of EU policy was the Common Security and Foreign Policy (CSFP). The Lisbon Treaty merged the Common Foreign and Security Policy with the work of the European Commissioner for External Relations and European Neighbourhood Policy, creating a ‘High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy’. The High Representative is in charge of the new European External Action Service (EEAS), a diplomatic service of sorts for the EU. It remains the case that the High Representative can only speak for the EU in foreign policy areas where all 27 member states agree; foreign affairs remains an area where all member states retain a veto.

The European Union secured ‘super-observer’ status on the 3 rd May 2011. This grants “the delegation of the European Union the right to make interventions, as well as the right of reply and the ability to present oral proposals and amendments” in the United Nations General Assembly. [1] Given the increased activity of the EU in foreign policy areas, the question has arisen whether the EU should get a permanent seat on the UNSC, replacing France and the UK who would lose their permanent seats. This case examines the arguments for and against that specific proposal.

[1] United Nations General Assembly, ‘General Assembly, in recorded vote, adopts resolution granting European Union right of reply, ability to present oral amendments’, 2011 http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2011/ga11079.doc.htm
