Development is the sustained increase in standards of living of a country. There however is no individual indicator that shows that a country is considered developed. The proxy that is usually used is Gross Domestic product per capita which is the total amount a nation produces divided by the country’s population. This then captures the relative performance of nations and usually shows how developed a nation is. [1] What it does not show however is how equally that wealth from that output is divided so it is possible that a nation that is very rich by GDP is actually not very developed if all of the wealth is concentrated in the hands of one or two people, an example of this is Equatorial Guinea which is considered a high income economy by the world bank yet also has 76.8% of the population in poverty. [2] Dissatisfaction with this has led to the development of the Human Development Index for the Development Reports of the United Nations Development Programme. These include a broader range of indicators using Gross National Income per capita (only slightly different from GDP) with purchasing power parity (meaning it takes in to consideration differences in prices for the same product) as a wealth component. It also includes life expectancy at birth for a health component, and mean years of schooling and expected years of schooling to create an educated component. The index is sometimes improved by adjusting for inequalities between the three. [3] In either case countries tend to be categorised into Very High, High, Medium (with this being split into lower and upper middle in the World Bank’s) and Low. A country might be said to be fully developed when it reaches high. Development however might simply be taken as the movement between these categories.

Dictatorship does not automatically result in development – an increase in human wellbeing, which can be evidenced by improved education, health, lifestyles and security. Neither does democracy. There are cases both of democracies that have failed to develop, such as India and Bangladesh, and there are a lot of instances where autocracies have failed to develop. On the opposite side of the coin there are both cases where democracies have developed such as many western countries; the UK, US, France, and cases where states have developed under a more autocratic system such as South Korea, Singapore, and most recently China. It is China that is the driving force behind current debates on whether dictatorships might be better than democracies at encouraging at least the initial stages of growth.

There are however both advantages and disadvantages to each system when it comes to encouraging development. A dictatorship has greater control over people and resources allowing for more state driven economic growth, making it in a better position to develop than a democratic state. This is most evident in early stages of development where development is based on the production of goods. This debate will explore whether dictatorships are more likely to develop then democracies.

[1] ‘Per Capita GDP’, Investopedia, http://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/per-capita-gdp.asp

[2] The World Bank, ‘Equatorial Guinea’, data.worldbank.org http://data.worldbank.org/country/equatorial-guinea

[3] Human Development Reports, ‘Human Development Index’, United Nations Development Programme, http://hdr.undp.org/en/statistics/hdi/
