The case: The Jaipur Literature Festival

Salman Rushdie, the Booker prize-winning author of Midnight’s Children as well and The Satanic Verses, which is banned in many countries including India, was slated to attend the Jaipur literature festival from 20 to 24 January 2012. At noon on the 20 January, Rushdie announced he was not going to attend because he had “been informed by intelligence sources that paid assassins from the Mumbai underworld were on their way to eliminate him”. However, in an interview four days later, Rushdie said the original assassination threat had in fact been fabricated by someone within the intelligence agencies to coerce him into cancelling his trip.

Rushdie’s visit was also publicly opposed by several right-wing Islamic groups such as the Darul Uloom Deoband , as well as members of mainstream political parties including the Congress , which is in power in the state of Rajasthan (where Jaipur is located). After Rushdie cancelled his trip, the organisers promised he would join through a video link. Just hours before the video link was scheduled to commence, however, that too was cancelled due to security concerns.

Manav Bhushan's opinion <

The way that the Rushdie issue has been handled by the Indian government is shameful, and is representative of how all political parties in India pander to right-wing religious agendas just before any election (in this case, the UP state elections starting in mid-February). However, I feel that if a battle has to be fought for the right to freedom of expression, then the soldiers fighting that battle need to display some more courage than Rushdie and the organisers of the festival managed to muster. It was clear from the very outset that there was no credible threat to Rushdie’s life, and that the security needed for his personal safety could have easily been arranged. Even though there was a real risk of the festival being disrupted by protesters, this was a risk which the organisers and Rushdie should have taken in order to defend the sanctity of the right to freedom of speech. By cancelling not just the visit, but also the video link, the organisers and Rushdie have further emboldened the fanatical elements in India and sent them the message that these kind of scare tactics are indeed an effective way of pressurising people into silence.

-
Manav Bhushan

This issue is said to have ‘divided Muslims from Westerners along the fault line of culture’ and pits the Western Value of freedom of expression against the view of many Muslims that nobody should be permitted to insult or malign the Muslim faith. [1]

Read about the Jaipur Literature Festival and other case studies about Salman Rushdie on Free Speech Debate

[1] http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia/2007/06/2008525123146597321.html
