The Security Council is the key organ of the United Nations with primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. It has the power to establish peacekeeping missions, impose international sanctions, and can authorise military action against a sovereign state. Currently it consist of fifteen members, five of them (UK, USA, France, Russia and China) are permanent members that hold a special veto power over all non-procedural decisions in the Council. The other ten are elected for two-year terms. Directly after World War 2 the Security Council had eleven members; after the amendment of the UN Charter in 1963 the number of non-permanent members was increased from six to ten but no other substantial changes were made. Since the first reform in the sixties no other reforms have been made, although the world today has changed drastically from the world just after Second World War.

The question of equitable representation in the Security Council has been on the General Assembly agenda since 1979, when a number of mostly developing countries raised the issue of under-representation of developing and non-aligned countries in the Security Council. Although the topic of the reform of the Security Council was opened already in the late seventies there was no extensive debate until the 1990s. The 1980s were still an era marked by antagonism between East and West and due to the large economic problems of developing countries their influence and that of the non-aligned movement decreased. At that time there was no general support for major reform, since all the permanent members, except for China, opposed any expansion vigorously.

While the 1980s were perhaps still an inconvenient time for the discussion, the atmosphere dramatically changed in the nineties. The Security Council has become much more active after the end of the Cold war and has therefore attracted more attention and consequently also criticism. Today it seems to be universally acknowledged that some sort of reform is needed and urgent but there is no consensus on what this reform should look like. There are several models debated, some of them propose expansion only in the non-permanent category, others a third category of members that would have longer terms but no veto power. The most supported models envisage increases in both the permanent and non-permanent categories. One of them is the so-called Razali proposal that adds 5 permanent (Germany, Japan, one from Africa, one from Asia, one from Latin America) and 4 non-permanent seats (one for Asia, Latin America, Africa and Eastern Europe) to the existing Council, increasing the total number of members to 24. This proposal enjoys the widest support, yet it has not gained the sufficient number of votes required by the UN Charter (two-thirds of UN members, including all five permanent members are needed for any Charter amendments). The arguments below discuss the pros and cons of a plan to expand membership in both permanent and non-permanent categories.

Furthermore due to the increased activity of the EU in foreign policy areas, the question has arisen, triggering new debates, whether the EU should get a permanent seat on the UNSC, replacing France and the UK who would lose their permanent seats. The possible changes in the UN Security council and the eventual consequences of them are object of the current debate.
