The promotion of the body beautiful, some would say the 'obsession' with it, has become a cause for concern in recent years. Arguably this has always been the case but a growth in various eating disorders, hospital admissions for such disorders were up by 16% in the England from 2011-2012, has been put forward as evidence that many people, especially teenage girls, have taken this fixation to an extreme where it is causing harm to their health. [1] Others have suggested that dieting has become not just a physical threat to people's well-being but serves to make life miserable, both socially and mentally, for those who do not fit the image of perfection to which we a supposed to aspire.

There are many possible causes for this and they certainly can't all be ascribed to the promotion of diets. Imagery in magazines, the physical appearance of celebrities and other causes have all been suggested as well as others. [2] However, there is a particular issue of concern here, and it is a critical one for proposition, the diets that are the focus of this debate are expensive and of questionable benefit. It's important that proposition focus on these types of diet, faddish, expensive and often offered with claims that are both improbable and implausible.

Clearly the word 'diet' has several meanings and it's important to stress that in this context we are talking about those that are promoted through the popular media rather than dietary advice that is 'promoted' by doctors and other medical professionals. Although the exact nature of these diets may change they usually fit a certain format; heavy advertising in teen and women's magazines with a presence on television that usually focusses on daytime TV. Almost invariably, the advert will contain a line such as “I lost three stone in just twelve weeks”.

There are three real concerns in this case; medical, attitudinal and ethical. As one might expect, the three are inter-related. The medical issue is at the core of the debate, nobody denies that obesity is a major public health concern, particularly in the West and notably in the US. However, the contention is that the cure is worse than the problem. Obsessive dieting can be unhealthy and the 'quick fix' solutions that lead to rapid weight loss can be physically very damaging and have a questionable benefit as the weight may return as quickly as it leads. The general medical advice, instead, tends to suggest moderation in all things. [3]

There are also concerns in terms of social attitudes – that diets promote a physique that is simply unattainable for most people. In the process this focus can lead to anorexia and other eating disorders. [4] They also engender attitudes among young people that can lead to bullying and intimidation for those who are overweight. These social attitudes have wider implications in terms of how we assess beauty and the lengths people will go to fit in.

The ethical concerns build on the previous two elements. Even where it's simply a case of buying a book, diets have a cost associated with them and some medical practitioners feel that they are selling a dream rather than anything with proven benefits. There is some evidence that certain individuals can become addicted to dieting; often seeking to be below a healthy weight. Alternatively people may endlessly jump for the next miracle cure, regardless of the cost, in an effort to attain the unattainable.

In short, Proposition is aiming to pose three questions – Is pursuit of a certain physical appearance sensible; is that appearance worth pursuing; is the proposed diet even possible as a route to get there? Opposition, by contrast, has two compelling arguments. The first is that they can argue that aiming to have a slim physique is a worthy aspiration in health terms and, secondly, that what people chose to do with their diet is not really an area of competence for any government. Tackling childhood obesity has been a priority for many governments so opposition can claim endorsement for the general idea of losing weight and encouraging the notion of dieting as a whole. They then need to address whether these diets are the right way of achieving this goal. The issue here is a simple one of freedom of speech, nobody is forcing anyone to adopt any of these diets, manufacturers and authors are simply putting ideas out there; it is not the role of government to tell them which one to choose.

Debaters' Note

I have set this debate in the framework of UK legislation although the arguments can be transferred to other jurisdictions. One point worth noting here is that restrictions on advertising are only half the story as, realistically, government intervention would need to prohibit discussion of the diets in the print and digital media. In doing so, any government would be taking a massive step towards censorship over what, in the great scheme of things, could be presented as a fairly incidental issue. For the purposes of these notes, proposition defines this as a restriction on all advertising for diet pills and similar treatments in print and broadcast media.

[1] BBC News, ‘Hospital admissions for eating disorders up by 16%’, 11 October 2012,
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-19908688

[2] Ronna Liggett, ‘This House would ban sexist advertising’, idebate.org, 26 January 2012, http://idebate.org/debatabase/debates/culture/house-would-ban-sexist-advertising

[3] BMJ, ‘Obesity – how to lose weight’, 31 October 2012, p.3, http://bestpractice.bmj.com/best-practice/pdf/patient-summaries/556120.pdf

[4] Boston Children’s Hospital, ‘Anorexia Nervosa’, http://www.childrenshospital.org/az/Site3172/mainpageS3172P1.html accessed 27 November 2012
