The world of sport is almost entirely divided between men’s and women’s categories. However men’s sport has always dominated all forms of media coverage despite the fact that women also compete in those exact same sport (increasingly on a professional level). This includes live broadcasting, newspaper and internet articles and reports, news coverage etc. For example, in the USA women’s sports receive a total of 1.6% of sports airtime on local TV and sports media giant ESPN. [1] A similar story is noticed in Australian sports media where women’s sports coverage totalled 9% compared to 81% on men’s sports. [2] In the written press the numbers are similarly skewed. Between 1998 and 2009, 303 articles were published on women’s football in the British press. Putting this into context, in the same time span 388 articles were published on Coventry City FC (a lower league British club) alone. [3] What’s important to note with the examples given is that they are all taken from countries that have a relatively large participation and interest in women’s sports. Paradoxically, although the level of participation of girls and women in sport has increased significantly over the past decades this does not appear to have transposed onto increased airtime for women’s sports. Indeed some studies have shown the opposite has occurred and the gap in coverage between men’s and women’s sport has widened. [4] The only notable exceptions to the male domination in the world of sport are in the Olympic Games where coverage is equal irrespective of gender, and to a lesser extent Grand Slam Tennis where coverage is roughly equal but the men’s competitions still carry more prestige.

[1] Deggans, Eric: “Continued apathy by sports media toward women’s sport a bigger problem than first meets the eye”, National Sports Journalism Centre, June 8 2010.

[2] Australian Government, “Women’s Place in Society”, 2009, cited in Ford, Tom: “Is media coverage of women’s sport equal in quantity and quality to that of men’s?” , accessed 7/9/2012.

[3] Turner, Georgina, “Fair play for women’s sport”, The Guardian, 24 January 2009.

[4] Deggans, Eric: “Continued apathy by sports media toward women’s sport a bigger problem than first meets the eye”, National Sports Journalism Centre, June 8 2010.
