Given the current state of the Republican Party, in a normal election Obama’s second term should be a shoe-in. However, this is not a typical year because, in Clinton’s famous phrase, “It’s the economy Stupid”. However, for Obama, it’s not just the economies stubborn refusal to grow or create jobs that means he will face an uphill battle, there is also a feeling among many of the, mostly young, enthusiasts who were convinced that ‘Yes, they could’ that, in retrospect ‘No, he couldn’t’.

While that demographic feel that, for example, Obama’s health care reforms didn’t go far enough, he also faces other groups who think they went much too far. Of course Obama is an unparalleled campaigner - with perhaps only Clinton surpassing him on the stump in terms of modern politicians – and things may change during the campaign. However, for a president to come back from his current levels of support in the polls to win a second term would be unusual to say the least.

Among the many programs meant to create jobs that have failed to materialize, his Green Jobs Program has faltered from the start. [i] The same is true of other programs where he has not been able to go far enough for the proponents of particular ideas but far enough to anger those who oppose the changes. As a result he has met with vitriol from the right and apathy, at best, from large sections of the left.

Another difficulty is that in 2012 he was an iconic, history-making candidate; first of his generation, first black candidate and, perhaps most importantly, as different from Bush as it would be possible to be. Now history has been made and the electorate, known for its short memories, no longer allow him to play the ‘Well, at least I’m not Dubya’ card. He faces the problems of all incumbents that the problems he could previously blame on his opponent are now his problems and he’s had four years to sort them out.

As with Clinton some of his strengths are becoming weaknesses, he’s seen as a little too slick, in Mitt Romney’s words, “We need a leader, not a politician.” [ii] However, ultimately the election looks set to be determined by two factors the Republican Party and the economy. He has no control over the former, whether he has any over the latter remains to be seen.

All of this counts against him and his successes mostly have ended up counting against him as well. That said, it would be a brave pundit who would bet the house on an Obama defeat in 2012. There have been candidates who have recovered from polls like these in their second term but not many. However, there aren’t that many presidents or candidates like Barack Mohammed Obama.

[i]
Lochhead, ‘Energy stimulus program plagued by problems’, SFGate.com, 3 November 2011 .

[ii] Mitt Romney. USA Today. 10 June 2010
