We should introduce universal health care because it's both a moral responsibility and smart policy.
So let's start by talking about why the introduction of universal healthcare is a moral responsibility.
And I think that a lot of this comes down to the very basic ideas that people soccer people die.
And if we have the ability to help them it's worthwhile to do so there's a whole lot of reasons for this, it could be because if we were in that desperate situation we would want that help it's because it's just a basic level of apathy that we don't want to see people in pain, all at the end of the day I think it's just the idea is that this is the kind of suffering that we can prevent at honestly, not that much of a sacrifice and it's, therefore worth the cost.
And I think that it's only about health care that we really look at these things that way if you look at the idea that police officer shouldn't help people who are poor because they don't have as much of an ability to form police departments, fair taxes and things like that.
Most people would probably agree that's a kind of ridiculous concept.
Because, of course, are like police officers should be helping prevent crime like if a poor person's getting murdered that's, not any worse than if a rich person is getting murdered.
And I think that that's not all that different from healthcare, possibly like getting shot by a weapon or things like that isn't you're going to be just as dad if you're going to die of cancer, but you can't afford a lot of the treatment because you don't have health insurance in these things are covered and it's, not gonna, make all that much of a difference to you how it happens to you.
And I think that we're talking about human life and is is very important is on a moral level.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about why I think that this is smart on a policy level, and in most places around the world on this.
But if it's an emergency situation, hospitals are going to just turn you down based on an inability to pay.
They may discharge you earlier, you may get more limited treatment options, but they're still gonna.
Take you end up with your like having a severe medical crisis.
Hospitals, gonna do that.
And I spend at least in places like america and that's a problem because often times preventative care is less expensive than dealing with the consequences are in both like hard terms and softer terms in hard terms in that it is often possible less money to do regular checkups, regular screenings, all removing things maybe before they become cancerous, or the like are making sure that you are have access to like the healthier lifestyle.
All of that is ultimately better for someone's life, arms and wallet and the state's wallet than having to deal with incredibly hefty medical bills from specialized care as a result on lack of preventative treatment.
But in addition to that it's also better in a broader sense in that obviously it's not great for the economy.
If a lot of people are getting sicker more often, the people are dying more often and things like that, like when people put off care in earlier parts of their life, it makes things like in america, medicare for older people are more specific support for elderly people or on it burdens employers who are employees can't work as much all of these things are out up in cost.
And since our health is something that affects everyone home, it has an incredibly bass of the fact on at an economy, and in alternately results in money, just getting wasted lives getting destroyed.
And for all those reasons we should introduce universal healthcare.