Then gambling, because gambling is essentially a way for corporations to steal money away for for governments to steal money away from poor people.
And I think this is a real problem.
So when you look at like the opulent casinos in places like las vegas, or even the opulent casinos in places like florida, where I grew up one of the common things you wonder is where do they get all of the money for these kinds of things where they got all the money to fund these kinds of operations.
And the reason for that is clear, they get all this money because they're essentially stealing in the overall cases, millions upon millions of millions of dollars, probably billions of dollars from the album from people, and they do this in rather insidious ways that happens over time.
It happens on the individual level another the last when it keeps happening over and over again, it's billions of dollars that is being taken away from individual people.
So I think that first and foremost, the government should band and paternal eyes it because I think that this is money poorly spent I think that any amount of money that is being spent on gambling is money that could be spent on anything more useful.
It could be spent on like any kind of good or service that could be spent on like education.
It could be spent on pretty much anything that's more useful than just wasting it and giving it to a corporation that provides almost no services at all, but I think that what's even more insidious is that often times the government props up gambling.
So when you look at places so when you look at things like a lottery for example, which are a form of gambling, this is essentially just trying to like trick the average person into spending whatever amount of money they have whether it's five dollars or ten dollars or whatever and spending that money on a pointless thing.
Because at the end of the day, the odds of actually winning in most gambling situations are incredibly unlikely and you're basically just throwing that money away, and I think that's a big problem.
I think that this is where the real focus of the debate is because when you talk about like small scale, individual gambling or even like internet gambling, these are things that are so unenforceable like you're never going to be able to regulate gambling between friends you're probably never going to be able to fully regulate gambling on the internet.
So I think that when you ban gambling you're specifically attacking the state who tries to take money from people by a lot of re and you're attacking corporations who try to take money from people in this way, and I think that therefore, this is an incredibly big problem, it is also something that's incredibly feasible because they don't think there's any real way around these kind of things I think that the best case scenario was that maybe people substituted with other forms of gambling, but I think that a lot of people are going to be may be turned off by having to like do so legally.
And I think that one the biggest reasons why people gamble is because there's an assumption that it's harmless there's, an assumption that you're only spending a few dollars there's an assumption it's not that big of a deal, but when it keeps happening over and over again, the money piles up over time.
And this is where I think the real problems come and I were, I think poor choices are truly me government has a duty to stop this, so we're very proud to ban gambling.