We should not further exploit wind power.
And the reason we shouldn't further exploit wind power is because on the comparative it's not really all that great of a form of energy.
I don't really think that this is necessarily a comparative between whether we should act weight when our purses oil and gas, I think that wind power is probably better than oil and gas, but at the point at which you're making a decision to axe blade wind power that over something that's cheaper, but more environmentally destructive like oil or natural gas, then you probably have the capability to invest in alternative forms of green energy, besides when our so things like solar energy, our hydro electric energy.
So I think that if you're going to invest and obviously you should invest in some kind of a green tack, comparatively because it's a lot better than oil and gas for the environment, which is incredibly important right now, so we don't all die, but as far as choosing the best form of at all alternative energy, green energy, I think that wind power is vastly inferior to alternatives like solar energy for a couple of reasons.
First and foremost, I think that wind energy comes with a lot more possible harms the environment, bad alternatives like solar energy.
And the first reason for this is that setting up wind farms is bad for the sub for like habitats of certain animals, so it can disrupt like bird migration patterns, and it can kill birds that's like a widely documented thing and that's not good because birds are important.
You don't want to describe bird migration patterns are you don't wanna kill birds, eating do anything wrong you're like putting wind turbines in the middle of where they're flying that's, not right, but also often times though, like places where wind turbines are most effective where it's windiest are on the light are by the ocean, or by the water leases where ecosystems are often times more fragile, like you may have like reese there, you have a lot more on animal life in the area like in shallow waters.
You have animals that like live around there too, you have birds that go there, obviously, like seattle's and there's all kinds of ways in which having like fast moving wind turbines can be really destructive snacks, natural ecosystems, much more so than solar panels, which you can just like plop on a roof or plop on the roads or in the middle of the desert, where there isn't all that much stuff, and they work pretty well you're really getting away up much.
But in addition to that, I also think that they can be more effective in their use like solar energy can be more much more effective in its use of exploit it compared to wind farms of wind power in there is a few reasons for this first and foremost because of the potential for energy.
So the sun is just an infinitely stronger source of energy than the way like I like the wind is fine, but the sun has a lot more energy like the problem with solar energy right now is we're, not in the top one of the potential energy, but that's the point potential energy.
The potential is there because the sun is a lot stronger, so you're able to get more out of it.
If you keep exploiting it green, if you actually in solar power, it's going to live you'll more benefits most likely.
But I also think that it's more diverse and need locations that you can put it in like if you have to put wind turbines by at beach because like beaches are more when you are in the ocean, a lot of people like that, because like it gets in the way of life in features and or water and things like that.
But it's also if it's in the ocean, which is when you're it's farther away from like sources of use farther away from where people are living, which means you're probably gonna, lose energy and transmission in transporting the energy verses.
If you just put like solar panels on a roof that and that's like a pretty easy way to get energy.
If you put solar panels on like a park by like a parking lot or garage like all kinds of places they can fit in a lot of places and it's way more efficient and effective.
So for those reasons, don't exploited wind power.