We should legalize cannabis for many.
Many reasons so first let's talk about how we're going to legalize it, this isn't going to be just medical.
This is going to be everything medical and recreational in addition to it being fully legalized.
Anyone who was imprisoned is currently serving a prison sentence for any kind of marijuana, related offense should immediately be released further.
Anyone regardless of if they're currently in prison OR one sir should have their record entirely explains us so and all of their rights restored if that is their only offense.
Additionally, the students are also restitution for all the damages and the lives of the took away because of the DR war on drugs, they precipitated.
So why are all these things necessary and just so first let's talk about rights that people have.
I think that at its core the state doesn't have the right to say that people can smoke.
I don't or do whatever they want with wheat spell.
Why I think this is true.
Keep in mind that there's a lot of different ways that individuals can choose to live their lives.
And if somebody wants to get high because they enjoy the benefits of it because they think that it makes maybe it makes food taste a little bit better maybe day it makes sex a little bit better.
Maybe it relaxes them a little bit more if they're stressed, if if they're like stressed, maybe you can do it can do anything like things like that.
Those are incredibly reasonable decisions that people can make if they choose to do so in the same way that people use alcohol for social lubrication or you can have a glass of wine after dinner to de stress or things like that or smoke a cigarette use all things that we accept because we accept that people have a right to make these choices with their body, but more specifically, they have the choice to make this body things that affect their own internal mental process used, especially when they don't affect other people with any kind of horrible way because all of the effects of marijuana or limited to the individual cell.
So additionally, I also think that is important because there's been absolutely no advocacy to the war on drugs whatsoever.
It is accomplished nothing.
It has not led to less people using drugs.
In fact, is led to more people using cannabis there's a reason why over fifty percent of people in the united states, which is not exactly known for being progressive on a lot of issues supports this because people recognize that it's not working because people have been using the drugs in the only things that the drug is getting cheaper and it's getting stronger and more people are using it and that's, obviously when you're spending billions of dollars on something a failure but let's talk about those billions of dollars because the enforcement of these laws that aren't working is costing us billions of dollars each and every year and all of that money could be used on anything and you could burn those billions of dollars, and it would be more useful to what's happening in the status quo will disintegrate doctor you're spending billions of dollars there's a compounding lost in that you're losing billions of dollars in potential tax revenue because you can't tax these you can't tax people in the marijuana industry who make income off of this, you can't tax, the corporations with these kinds of businesses, you can't tax all the employers and things like that on so all of that is additional loss, gravity, but additionally it's also bad, because if you're worried about things like gateway drugs for safe use and things like that it's only better, if you're going to legalize it and worse, if you keep the status quo and the reason for that is because if you're worried about gateway drugs, if you legalize marijuana and you go to a marijuana store you're, not gonna find heroin, but if you go to enough marijuana, dealers still probably have troops still probably have LSD or cocaine, maybe even heroin.
I think that it's a whole lot more likely they are to have these problems.
Additionally, if you're worried about underage use it's, not like a drug dealer under the table is going to care about if you're fifty dollars came from someone who's sixteen or twenty five, but obviously in an institutionalized established for the house to worry about losing its license to sell and all of its profits, they're not going to be as willing to give it away.
There are safe access and things like that on that it's clear this better.
But additionally you're also not going to worry about like the possibilities of there being harmful substances because you actually know what you're going to get.
So for all those reasons, honestly, many, many more we should legalize marijuana.