We absolutely should not ban gambling because it won't work first of all and secondarily there's, nothing really wrong with gambling.
It should be fine, it should be legal.
I want to do it so let's start by caulking about why banning gambling will not work at all.
So the point of banning something presumably is you wanted her people from doing it because you think it has some kind of harm or problem on.
So this has an assumption, and the assumption is that the band itself is actually going to turn people from the activity in the first place that is gambling so that's, not gonna happen and it's not gonna happen because people have been gambling for thousands of years people rather enjoy gambling on it's, a pretty ingrained part of our culture.
We have entire cities dedicated to it, you know, like there's gambling in las vegas, obviously I'm pretty sure there's a lot of gambling in places like a lot, israel as well, there's all kinds of like a lot of cities, how these as their industries and things like that.
So their fondest of first and foremost, a problem is that you're gonna see a whole lot of resistance from the people who are involved in the gambling industry, a whole lot of resistance about the cities and livelihood that are being destroyed and a whole lot of resistance to all these kinds of policies in bands in the first place.
But the second and more importantly, it's completely unenforceable because you can just gamble on the internet in there's, nothing really the government can do to regulate it, because oftentimes the websites can be set up in like different countries or you can even if like the web sites are under like any kind of certain set of laws, you're there's always ways that you can use the internet to avoid government detection, and I highly doubt that the government is going to dedicate like legit military and hacking and all kinds of technical and physical and monetary resources to really cracking down gambling.
And if I wanted to do that, it would cost like billions of not probably like, like so much so many billions of dollars that it would be a complete waste of time since people are largely going to do it on the internet anyway and that's, obviously a problem because first and foremost you're, not making the money off of gambling anymore, you can't tax gambling, you can't profit off of it.
So a lot of money in revenue is going away.
Additionally, when you band something it becomes a part of the black market it's more likely to be unsafe, you're more likely going to have like crime lords and people like that presiding over the factors.
And additionally, you also can have things like consumer protection laws in place I so you can't really enforce things to make sure that like you'd, obviously gambling is random and to a large extent, things like that, but enforcement to make sure that like you aren't being as a gambler like completely screwed over by the people like the house, per se so that's important as well arms.
So gambling's probably not.
But anyway might as well happen safer more profitably more effectively, if you just regulated rather than bad, but I also think that there's nothing wrong with that gambling and it's rather immoral to band in the first place because keep in mind that when people are gambling they're usually gambling with their own money, if they're gambling with someone else's money, we call them wall street bankers, so they're, usually gambling with their own money, not other people's, so that's money that you've earned that's money that you can do what you want with.
You should have the right to spend your money on the way you want because you work for it when additionally gambling doesn't harm anyone it's not late.
It gambling is really harm people like any kind of the big things like crime, or whatever that like me deeply associate with gambling is problematic that's using only because the other things like drugs or prostitution or whatever are legal in the first place, maybe not to be legal to, but also keep in mind that like the black market argument that I made about how that's not gonna be solved anyway.
So other than maybe like the v facilitation of crime there's, no real reason, why gambling itself is all that bad why you should be able to spend your money on that you aren't that way if you want.
So for those reasons, we should not ban gambling.