We should further explain unconventional oil for two big reasons.
First, because the further exploitation of unconventional oil will lead to a drop in oil prices, which will make just about everything in our lives, cheaper and secondarily, because it'll give us independence from foreign oil, which is certainly beneficial for about like geo political perspective.
Optimist repeated perspective in international relations.
Start by talking about why this is going to lead to a drop in the price of oil and why that's so important so it's going to lead to a drop in prices of oil because you're just going to have more of a supply of it.
Your is a lot of untapped things like we'll sands or like shale oil things like that that are being extracted.
And there is a lot of new opportunities for more advanced ways to extract what which is leading to a large surplus and oil, which is what's leading to the price drops in oil.
This is incredibly important because cheaper oil prices doesn't merely means that your cars are going to be able to go to places for less money, although that is very important since most americans commute to work and get a lot of their day to day provisions through their car.
So that is very important.
This also affects things like public transportation in a lot of other stores of transportation.
It also affects things like basic heating and cooking costs is a lot of places, especially in the northeast use oil for their meeting.
It also affects just about anything that uses plastic.
So plastics are used in almost everything and david, they live plastics used oil.
So when the price of oil goes down, the price of anything that uses plastic also goes down idea the day, these costs pile up a lot and I decrease in the price of oil means that it's just much easier for the average person, the live the day their day to day life, because the cost of living just goes down, they're able to do things on a later budget, which is very helpful for people in the call to me it's a great way to get the economy going.
But the second thing that I want talk about is about poured oil in about how this is going to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
So like principally in all of the reasons I talk about in my last point about how important will price stability and especially if they can be lower on how important was our to an economy because how much the effective date and a light, those are very, very important things that you don't want to have based on the whims of an oil cartel like because if they decide that they want to increase oil prices or d I'd do something to increase the prices of oil.
What this means is that they essentially have control over your economy because they're able to make things more expensive for every person that is in your club that's an incredible degree of control that another government is going to happen over you, which means that they can use that leverage against you to try to like get more favorable light business proposals, or in some cases are looking the other way on possibly human rights, abuses that may be happening our support for more despotic regimes there's all kinds of ways in which four governments can use this as leverage in order to get what they want out of our governments like the united states and that's incredibly problematic because you can undermine your values, you can undermine your economic interest and undermines the economic livelihood of the citizens in your countries.
So that's, like, very, very bad.
Also there's also the more tenuous idea about how you don't want this to be like, maybe like a terrorist organization or things like that, either, which can also be the result of light like state funded terrorism, which can also sometimes happened when your purchasing I'm certain countries in the middle east and is also sometimes a problem like a lot of light members of the saudi arabian government has been linked to terrorist act alike, have been leaked funding terrorism and things like this are these are also things that you're not going out of any problems that if you're trying to use unconventional oil are things like well shells like in canada or north dakota or things like that.
So for all those reasons very, very proud to propose.