We should ban school uniforms because they ultimately have are a good amount of good for the students.
They create good in the fact that it gives students an outlet to express their creativity, their individuality and their preferences, and it creates good in that it allows students to just wear clothing that is more comfortable for them, more fitting for them like better for them, which I also which I think makes them like better students and a lot of ways actually.
So what's start by talking about the first thing the creativity because I think that it's important that when we look at students, especially given that schools are just purely academic atmosphere is that they have social elements for them as well.
Students want to be able to express themselves.
They want to express their individuality.
They want to express what they like what they don't like things like that.
These are for what it's worth and worth noting constitutional protections that a lot of students have in places like america to express your speech in that way.
And I think that there is like a true value out when everyone is wearing the same when everyone just looks the same and it's obvious wearing the same things you don't really feel like you're able to express ourselves, you feel like one of just like a mob and that's just not something that people like and that's all harm already deed.
Next thing gonna talk about those about.
So I think that just oftentimes school uniforms are perfectly comfortable they're, not the kind of clothes that maybe people are comfortable in different kinds of clothing, and I think that that's actually important and no because a lot of people just work better or more able to focus when they're wearing thing that are comfortable like I'm, much better able to work when I'm wearing pajamas, then I'm wearing a suit which I think is uncomfortable unbearable, focus there's, plenty of people who feel like that a lot of students, especially when they're younger very likely, does you have focused in this way are being comfortable is also better.
You don't want to be wearing, like, like a stick thing if it's like one of wings shorter shorts and sweating if it's like hot out or you're sweating and things like that like these are basic things and but another, the less important things.
So the next thing is I want to just like way all of that against the fact compared all to the fact that there's no real positive impact for uniforms like first and foremost recognize that this is about uniforms not dress code.
So obviously a lot of the more extreme harms that people could talk about the other side or not actually all that important it's just like hyperbole.
But the final thing I want talk about is about like a lot of the lies that are associated with other things like wearing certain types of clothes is not a distraction there's, no real evidence of that wearing a certain kind of clothing doesn't make you like focus any better or things like that user ultimately just unfounded assertions and should be valid very happily.
So for all those reasons, very proud to propose.