We should ban cosmetic surgery because of the impact it has on people's emotional health and the financial cost and impose on people as well.
So in order to show why we think that these are harms are likely to be realized going to first talk to about how legalized cosmetic surgery leads to a culture in which cosmetic surgery is glorified and creates false ideals of beauty, and that ultimately this is what beats those harms.
So how do we so how does cosmetic surgery do this.
So we would say that cosmetic surgery oftentimes leads to people are changing their body, weighs the otherwise shin whether it's models there's like a plaster around on advertisements, looking a certain way or advertisements and say that you can look better if you've got something like a botox or breasts or a breast augmentation surgery.
We believe that these kinds of our procedures are what all leads to an entire culture where ultimately this is the expectation for how you should look.
And we believe it is when the when a culture creates this kind of expectation for beauty, it means that cosmetic surgery oftentimes is something that people feel pressured into getting something that they feel that they must get in order to feel wanted attracted or lovable.
So why do we think that this is harmful for people's emotional health because first and foremost, quite simply, this means that most people are not going to be able to meet a societal ideal of beauty without engaging as cosmetic surgery.
This means that in order for people to feel comfortable in their own skin, they have to go and pay for a procedure that's, obviously something that is not good and something that we shouldn't encourage within a society but intentionally we think that since oftentimes a whole lot of people are going to be able to access cosmetic surgery, weather is for economic reasons or parental consent reasons or simply not knowing how to do it or being afraid of the procedure altogether.
This means that a whole lot of people are going to have a low sense of self esteem and a lower sense of self worth because they're not going to feel like they look the same as people and I'd or look like the prettiest people at school where the most attractive people who are going to look these kinds of ways.
So why do we think that this is incredibly problematic given that there is honestly on a higher prevalence and in a lot of cases for things like depression or other forms of mental illness, we would say that it's incredibly important to make sure that we encourage people to have a healthier outlook on their body and a higher sense of self worth with this is something that is directly on discouraged by a world in which are cosmetic surgery is legalized.
And the next thing I want to talk about under this finally is about the financial cost that this is often or imposing people what do we mean by this.
So I already talked about how cosmetic surgery leads to a culture which are likely going to see people want to pursue this for in order to look better.
This is problematic because we think that in a lot of ways these procedures can be quite expensive, they can run up margins cost martin's of thousands of dollars.
So when people are coerced into spending thousands of dollars on frivolous nonsense, they obviously have less money for other things as well things that he could be quite important for them like food support or other things that can make them happier, goalie vacation time, but we also think this is quite bad in general because what this essentially amounting to a society coercing people away.
So they wouldn't spend this money otherwise when they think is a real problem.
So the final thing I want to talk about is about how this uniquely harms or people because we think that often times there's a lot of negative stereotypes that fall around poor people like in america, for example, poor people are often seen if there are, you know, racial, I sense poor people who are minorities are often seen as more hyper sexualized or more unattractive in certain ways.
While poor white people are often made fun of for things like missing teeth or life like that.
You would say that often times is in many ways, contribute to buy a culture in which cosmetic surgery exist and the expectations that are going to look a certain way.
And we think that a lot of ways this creates a disdain for certain groups of people in society understand which can also alternately drive policies.
We see a far greater importance.
So is for all those reasons we think you should ban cosmetic surgery.