We should close the guantanamo bay detention camp because there's a moral policy yet ultimately just makes everything worse, and it all makes the problem it's allegedly trying to solve like terrorism, a lot worse.
So let's start with talking about whites immoral.
I think this is rather obvious guantanamo bay detention camp was specifically created to be a moral.
It was created to be be immoral and not it was a place where it would be outside of regular US jurisdiction where people could be detained indefinitely where people didn't have any right to things like heat, yes, corpus where they can on demand reason for why they were being detained, it could be indefinite, there, wouldn't be any kind of trial there wouldn't be any kinds of appeals are interrogation methods could be our allies, hostile or torturous as you want them to be so could be something like torture, compute worse.
The cards are humiliate people and there's, no real way to actually ensure that these people are being treated, fairly with dignity and respect that these people are actually guilty of any kind of crime that these people actually know where life is going to be going and things like that.
So obviously those are by themselves pretty bad reasons in a moral reason.
The reason why that we all have protections against all of those things in america it out any kind of like a liberal democracies because we look at those things as grotesque as essentially the epitome of injustice, arbitrary convictions, arbitrary sentences, arbitrary imprisonment and all these things it's essentially the definition of despotism.
But I also think that this is bad on the international stage in a couple of weeks because it on a lot of countries get very angry about in brightly.
So obviously cuba's angry, because this is essentially flat that should belong to cuba and it's.
Basically like, like if cuba was operating a detention facility for communists dissidents in like q, west florida, I imagine the US would probably be pretty annoyed about that like it's like fair is not something that they want happening right on their storylines.
But additionally, I think that this is also bad on a level for like allies and people like that, oftentimes condemn it because it's seen as very very rights filed.
But finally it's also bad because on it's, ultimately our full as a propaganda tool that shows why people like the united states need before the first place and they need to be fault because they engage in a moral tactics because they do things like torture, muslims, turn them into prisons, without any kind of hope that the tent without any optional knowing of that being guilty, not really caring who it is or what they actually did doing this, possibly innocent people and maybe never returning to the home, or if they do return to home, possibly after they've, been tortured for something I didn't do all.
I can see why people get annoyed about that, and I can see why people get radicalized about these kinds of things over time.
So for all those reasons, close guantanamo bay.