We should keep right laws for a few big reasons.
First, because these crimes are incredibly bad crimes, even if there are perceived as minor felonies and they're ones that we need to the chart, and I think that, in addition to the fact, these are bad and we need to deter people from doing them.
I think that when people commit crimes over and over again, there's no reason to believe why they will keep doing it, so you need to protect the population from these people.
So let's talk about these kinds of things I think that it's important first start with an overview that the reason why we punish people will we be.
I give people prison sentences isn't just to punish people if you murder someone we're, not putting you in prison, just because you deserve a punishment for doing a bad thing, we're also doing we also have laws in place because we don't want people to do these things in the first place, and because we want people who are willing to do these kind of things to stay away from the rest side you to not be able to murder or hurt more people so that's what this is going to be about about deterrence about isolation of people for production.
So let's first start by talking about deterrence.
I think that it's important to note that these crimes oftentimes bad carbs and that there's never really a victimless crime, even if it's seen as like a minor felonies or just getting a long prison sentence for an accumulation of minor felonies minor felony can be things like minor staffed of things so like someone's computer or like this you're robbing a store, it could mean minor like it could be like minor instances of assault where you like you like abuse, several women are like your girlfriend, a couple of top like I'd various points in time.
These are things that are still severe and my opinion, these are things that are worthy of being punished.
I think that therefore, you want to stop people from doing these things.
And I think the best way to do that is by a greater deterrence threat because when there's a perceived lack of importance given to like the severity of these crimes that is because of the fact that they're associated with only small minor prison sentences, possibly for felony, it could just be probation or things like our parole or whatever.
And I think that therefore, when you say if you keep doing something you're going to be punished for twenty five years to life in prison, it says that the accumulation of keep doing these values over and over again, just not so that's what we tolerate, I think that people are gonna be less likely to commit these crimes because they're going to have greater punishment associate them.
People are going to recognize an internalized consequences of these so called minor felonies that they're committing.
But I also think that this is important stars isolating people and protect the population it's important note that if someone commits the same crime for a similar crime or similar felony, three times there's, no reason to really believe why they're not just going to keep doing this crime over and over again, like if you get caught doing a bad thing, three times I don't understand why they would do it a fourth time were fifth time, and this is bad because this because every additional time is another person it's getting assaulted, another person it's getting stolen from these are things.
The government has an obligation to stop an obligation to protect people from.
And I think that's there for a very logical grounds to put someone in prison longer.
If you can't trust that person to not keep stealing to not keep hurting people, then they should be in prison for a longer amount of time and your by.
I usually this person for the rest of the population.
It means that they can't steal from someone a fourth time or so three strikes laws help people doing that, and they make sure that the people are actually protected better.
And for all those reasons we should definitely keep three strikes laws.