We should increase internet censorship because it will be beneficial in suppressing dangerous ideologies and essential in crossing abuse, harassment and bullying.
So start talking about why it's invite are invaluable to suppressing abuse and bullying and harassment.
And I think that these kinds of things are incredibly common on the internet assess, especially because you can post anonymously and a lot of these things don't get traced back to you, you see are hordes of internet trolls.
You see people trying to leak private parts of people's identity.
You see people pulling people online, you see people making threats against people's safety, their family and their own safety online on these kinds of things are incredibly bad.
And the idea like the main idea for why censorship is bad is because you don't want to suppress discourse, but obviously bullying and harassment sizes, being our friends to individual people's dignity is also going to suppress discourse because, like if I'm afraid of if I'm afraid of like a bunch of trump trolls like doing very bad things, threatening me leaking my identity I'm, not going to express my views on the internet on critiquing a month later, if I'm worried that it's going to set off like all like a hole like a whole big thing.
So I think that in a lot of ways, this leads to it can lead to great harm to people, but it also can suppress discourse anyway, if you just across discourse in the right way, and I think this is also true with respect to possibly getting dangerous ideologies out.
And this is important because the internet is a useful platform in giving a lot of unsavory individuals, a community to coalesce around.
You can ask places like on like four chan are you have like a lot of unsavory elements to it on.
I hear there's five chan nowadays, which is for the people who I guess words who didn't like four chan and nothing wanted something even less savory.
There is on all lots of internet forums like batter more calmly.
I guess is right it where people are host all kinds of things all kinds of content and essentially a breeding grounds for a lot of things like all great white supremacy groups arm other kinds of things like that on which are often times used to target of vulnerable people in society are in really bad ways.
And I think that censoring the internet is important tax expressing these kinds of things on the final thing they would therefore talk about is why I think that censorship is going to happen in the correct way, and I think that the reason why would happen to craft ways because right now we have all agreed default to other than in the most extreme of extreme cases on just about anything on the internet goes.
And even if something on the internet is bad per se since it's so difficult regulated since we don't put a lot of resources into art, sometimes internet monitoring on or off things other than like terrorism and like crimes, I guess we don't look at so much as are regulating it as a modicum of discourse that's like a big problem, because a whole lot of our discourse as a society happens on the internet now days.
And when we don't regulate it, the right way, I think that what it results in a lot of these unsavory elements bubbling out.
And the big thing is that I feel like there's a natural check against this, and not if you try to track reasonable people, or if you try to shock, people who are more like reasonable political views, a whole lot of backlash on that most places have legal protection in those kinds of things.
All I really don't.
See this being all that successful unless you're talking about people who are truly abusing their position or using it to hurt other people in silence of silence.
Other people there for those reasons, increase internet censorship.