I agree, and we should absolutely subsidize them because the subsidies are alternately going to drive greater support and investment and innovation creation this field, which is going to be absolutely crucial for making sure that you get a cheaper fuel sources, more available and accessible spiel sources.
I am greener fuel sources, so let's break all this down cursed why we think that our government subsidies and investment in bio fuels is crucial to its survival.
And I think the reason for this is because right now, these are still growing technologies growing sources of alternative energy that can be used to replace the currently ingrained like more standard sources of fuel that we use.
So I think that when the government subsidizes these things it makes it much more economically feasible for people to try to make innovations in bio fuels that means trying to find ways to make biofuels, cheaper, I'm trying to find ways to make biofuels more efficient are these are all things I think, are incredibly important for moving the bio fuels as a viable option forward.
But additionally, I think that when you are that when you subsidize bio fuels and just the process of bringing more people into it also creates more of an economies of scale for iraq for a creek market economies of scale for biofuels.
So that since more people are going to now be working on it and it's going to be more production of dates and more like cost decreases and did things like that from the competition.
All these are going to mean that I like at the next level.
Manufacturers are gonna be more incentivized to create things that accommodate bio fuels.
Our enemies set off a chain reaction in ways that really ingrained bio fuels as actual part of the economy are you, I think that that's going to be great because first bio fuels or just simply a lot more sustainable and they're gonna be a lot better for the climate.
And this is by itself.
The most important thing that you can possibly consider in this debate because making sure the other cleaner source of energy given how many like millions of billions of people around the world like I drive or give off some kind or use some kind of non bio fuel for like heating or anything else.
This is a drastic way that you can decrease dependence on oftentimes like a dirty all pollutants like coal or having to like extract oil at a great environmental risk or not having to release as much heat or CO two emissions into the atmosphere, which leads to global warming and all those are bad things associated with it all not be benefited, but is this you may think that bio fuel is going to be all out when it's further developed a lot more accessible because anyone can use animal manure or food scraps or any other kind of thing like ops lands any other kinds of things as fuel.
These are things are just while the available widely available just about everywhere around the world.
So it also means that fuel is going to be a lot more accessible it's, not gonna cost as much.
So if you're like a poor community or if you're a poor country, maybe it's going to be a lot cheaper for you to industrialize outside to gain access to water resources because cost of energy, basic energy you're going to go down.
And finally, I think that it's important to look at the bigger picture about a bio fuel subsidies, and that the end of the day, even if we're talking about like tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies for bio fuels, the possible economic chaos that we're talking about are essentially like invaluable we're, talking about the like seating of the world in terms of climate change or billions of dollars in savings in energy costs being slashed entirely.
The long run our energy in the days.
These kinds of investments just aren't that much money for a government to meet their incredibly reasonable, and they have a very likely a good pay out.
So for all those reasons we should subsidize bio fuels.