We should stop libertarianism because it is both morally and practically the correct thing to do so let's start by talking about what we mean by adopting libertarianism so we're going to get rid of everything that is possible to get rid of as far as government services are concerned.
So what does this mean we're going to have only basic safety services to things like fire and police, the police should be smaller than it is now on as it should be military, you shouldn't get involved in international conflicts or things like that basic health and safety services.
So obviously you gonna have to have some degree of public health to make sure that people can stay healthy and third laws in basic legal structures to make sure that there's a way to mediate disputes between people are through like a public system.
So you want a public body of laws are all of these basic things are gonna be done as minimally as possible and that's how it's going to happen, everything else gone all all regulations, gone, everything gone.
So let's talk about why this is just the way that we should did that things have to be.
So first, I think that this is the only way to ensure that people are able to maximize individual conceptions about the best way to live their lives so here's the problem pretty much everyone in society disagrees on a lot of things, some people agreed, but by and large most people don't agree on just about everything.
And the problem is is that one of the things that is intrinsic to government interference is god, it controls the way in which people can live their lives.
So every time the government passes a regulation every time the government passes a band or every time the government gives out a subsidy it's directing some kind of it's doing some kind of reference on this is going to be at the expense of some other kind of person.
So I think that this is deeply on just because you can't just simply say that the majority of people is enough to justify the government depriving someone in some way, for example, if the majority wants to take away someone's right to have a life gay marriage with somebody or if the government over to majority wants to spend its money on working majority, wants to like spend this money on something stupid like subsidizing like us like this like a mission to mars or whatever some of some like random thing like the government to spend like a billion dollars and something users things in which it has an effect on people.
And this is a problem because the counter balancing solution is that you can just not sure and all these things, people can have their own money and they can spend what they want to do.
And I think this is also going to be much better because this means you're going to minimize rights violations.
I think that when you take away people's property or you prevent them from exercising their autonomy and wheezing, which teachers this is akin to theft it's left in doubt, you steal someone's money, and you are doing what you want with it because you think that is when you better here's the problem because you think that this money is going to go towards better use or just because you think a banner regulation is going to be good for society doesn't mean that you have a right to do that, because how it's best to live a life ultimately up to the individual.
Some people may think that it's better to be free and to be like health you're, safe that's, why some people may choose to do drugs or even healthy even consequences about people are autonomous, rational beings with like free.
Well, you can make their own choices, that's the best way in which people can be happiest and live the life they want you, which finally, I think this is going be most efficient and effective, and the reason for that is because I think that individual people know how to spend their money better than the government, the notice minimum you better than the government because they want something then they can pay for it.
They don't want something they don't have to pay for it on if they value something then they can support and what this does is ultimately and make sure that things that exist exist because individuals value.
So for all those reasons we should adopt libertarianism.