We should not ban for us because banning frats won't do any good, it unfairly targets, racks and the consequences will actually be a whole lot worse.
So let's start by talking about why the consequences of banning frats will be worse.
And I think the biggest reason for this is because you can ban official affiliation with fried, you can ban frats being on school campuses, and you can refuse to endorse them.
But you can't actually banned frightened or consolidate what this would ultimately create if you tried to ban frats situation like you see at places like brandeis, where that's our informally recognize, but because but never the less exist in an informal capacity off campus, because, like, obviously, you can't stop people from getting houses off campus with their friends and having people over and you can't stop people from just like associating with other people as individuals off campus that's, like a clear like constitutional issue, their freedom of association.
So there's, really nothing that you can actually do about banning fraternities and all campus, informal capacity.
So really the comparative is would you rather have attorneys be on campus in a more regular fashion.
It is easier to regulate, or would you rather than the off campus in a more informal street.
And I think it's obvious that it's better to have them on campus, because when they're off campus first and foremost university health and safety resources, aren't going to be able to readily access, you can call university police.
You have to call regular police.
If there's any problems there, which most people are unwilling to do because they're afraid of consequences seem with emts and paramedics people are probably more willing to reach out to their university for resources that actual authorities where they may be worried about consequences when there are off campus you're, not able to get things like bartenders are not able to make sure that there's like people monitoring the event because they're happening in on like a safer area rather than like a basement in some random person's house half a mile away from campus I'm.
So all of those things make it more likely that the worst things that fast you are just going to ask whether it's hazing, whether it's sexual assault, whether it's like other problematic behaviors, those things aren't going to go away they're just going to get worse because now they're happening in the rest regulated.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about how this unfairly targets france anyway, because obviously all of the problematic things that fraternities do whether it's hazing, whether it's like contributing to rape culture or anything like that anything that you could name a fraud because that's bad isn't necessarily unique to the frock, obviously sexual assault and things like that don't just happen for turn these don't just happen to frat parties.
There are part of like a widespread culture on and I don't think that getting rid of france is actually going to change a whole lot as far as like the way that like women feel safe on campus, probably much more effective would be just like trying to make it so that men are less likely to be problematic, rather than just trying to ban organizations that part that might contribute to these kinds of things are not really attacking the root cause of the problem you're just kind of attracting like attacking a symptom of it or like a method of it, but I think also beyond that, obviously, there's other organizations that operate similarly, there is teasing and like parties and things like that for sports teams like on other clubs and things like that, do that to like the brandeis debate teams from parties before on like.
So, obviously, like you can't just like fully regulate these kinds of behaviors on it's simply impossible thing to do, and it would be an unfair thing to do because ultimately fracking gauge in similar behaviors to a lot of other entities.
So for all those reasons, don't ban frats.