Physical education should not be mandatory and obviously physical education.
The reason why physical education shouldn't be mandatory isn't because exercises bad all the isley exercises, a good thing if anything people clearly don't do it and nothing, the status quo.
And I think that one of the big culprit for this is because of the way in which he gives people a false sense of actually working out even though it's often times are happening grossly ineffective, the and in the worst way possible.
So first, why do I think that each class is one of the absolute worst ways in which you absolute at which you can get a work out first because it's a like a pretty short amount of time like maybe the class will be like fifty minutes long, usually you take maybe like her ten fifteen minutes and change into your gym clothes.
Anyway, they do attendance for another five minutes than you do like you like mass around further ten minutes, probably like at the end, the day you're, not really doing all that much additionally, he oftentimes isn't all that enjoyable for people and it's not that enjoyable for people because different people like to exercise in different ways.
Some people may want to play soccer.
Some people may want to just run other people may want to like a basketball other people may want to play like four square or oddly field, like hot, like there's endless ways in which people can like acted like the active physically I'll.
He has like a mandatory class.
It necessarily requires it either aid be structured and like boring and unified, which is going to make a lot of people think that working out is boring thing that they don't enjoy or be it's, just going to lead to like this decentralized chaos where people can just kind of like, use the time to talk to friends wall like walking around the track outside, which is in actually helping anyone.
Additionally like the final reason why p class like the worst time to get a work out it's, because like people nobody wants to have this exercise in the middle of the day, like nobody wants to actually try that hard because like it's just not fun to sit in class, gross and sweaty for the rest of the day after you go to the gym are that's, not enjoyable.
Nobody wants to like smell or feel sweaty all day like you just don't feel good when you're in your class, you want to put in that effort, but additionally, like when you're in school you're focusing on other things are focusing on your greeting, your academics and the like are and you're preoccupied, you're, not really thinking about, like, yeah, like things like that.
So that's not important like you should leave it like, like recesses, like a good enough time to get the right arm and secondarily like the second reason why p their portion be mandatory is like all this comes in conjunction with an assumption that e, which is bad as I just talked about this is a suitable replacement for actually working out which is bad.
And the reason for that is because like, if like you spend like your time in class today, like you like did a little bit of physical activity in your mind, especially after like a long and tiring day at school, when you already feel gross and sweaty, because you work out your probably not going to feel like you need to work out more you're, probably not going to exercise more on your own or play like a game after school with your friends like a sport, you might be less likely to do these things because you feel tired and stressed out, but also because you feel like you're already working out you're already doing enough to work out and clearly that's not true increases like allusion of solvency for a problem.
It means that you're less like it actually more actively work out.
So for all those reasons you should not be mandatory.