We should absolutely bad trans fat usage in any food.
And the first reason for this is because it is incredibly on state.
There is no known safe amount of a day to just in jazz and that's the reason why so many plays a bandit secondarily because it's incredibly difficult to consent or know exactly what you're eating when it comes to transact and the consequences associate with it.
And third, because like we don't need transdanubia place, it was something else that isn't as bad.
So let's first start by talking about the snow like incredibly important safety concerns that are associated with trans fats specifically.
So let's start by saying that like heart disease is like the number one cause of death in developed countries around the world, the entire western world, an addition to it being the number one cause of death.
We spend like billions of dollars bill haley, probably tens of billions of dollars.
Maybe even more than that on commenting things like health disease and on fighting a lot of consequences that are associated with heart disease, but it's, not even a limit to that, like trans fat can also lead to things like obesity, diabetes, some people even think I could leave a like you could help us like alzheimer's there's, like a whole long list of things in which france back could lead these heart.
And it has a very direct way of doing that like research shows that like trans fat like if like, like one of the primary things like a heart attack or stroke, is like a clogged artery, the like worst of food here in taking it's, like trans fat leads to the clogging these arteries, there is like a direct link there so it's not like there's a some mystery about whether or not transplant is healthy, or or trans fat is actually all that bad sciences in science as transparent dogs, because all these problems.
So this is a very, very bad is especially bad given how much abuse and the degree to which it's used in food, and it was probably because it was, but all of the safety concerns are compounded by the fact that people don't understand the risks of eating it keep in mind that like there's a whole lot of facts that you can see in the back of package like how can you know the difference between, like a trans fat or a poly unsaturated fat rupali, mono, saturated fat were like unsaturated or saturated fats like these things get incredibly complicated.
And these things have widely differing health consequences on people and it's very likely you should not have a degree to know.
We like a degree in chemistry or biology, to know whether or not the food you're eating is healthy, where the food you're eating is safe.
And this is why the regulation of these kind of things specifically is important, but further more like glee corporations are oftentimes like, like stew, like, like, very evil about these things.
They want you.
They want to use these cheaper options that are oftentimes lassie.
So they try to hide the like bad consequences for you from you so that way you keep eating it.
And this is a very, very bad.
And this is further compounded by the fact that when all the corporations that are profit seeking are making the same decision it's very difficult to opt out of this, you like half the transparent because all the food supply they're using is like all the food you eat is using it, and you may not even know it, and you don't even know how harmful it is for use all that bad.
But finally, all of these points to a reason why we should ban trance top, because like we don't need it do unique benefit of a trans fat is that like a semi solid at room temperature.
So it's a lot like hard like butter or soft, like it will things like that.
But like what do you three can do you can just like soft in your butter in the oven, for like thirty seconds and it's going to be roughly the same consistency or things like that, like this is a nonsense excuse or you can just try to cope with a safer alternatives like, like paul moralism perfectly you can use that to, instead of like, like crisco larder thing like a crystal on shortened, like shortening is the big culprit.
Things like that lake.
The only consequence that forcing substitution of trans fat has is it's going to mean that less people are going to die, which is a good thing, enemies that corporations have to spend more money, figuring it out leg over no multi billion dollar corporations have to spend money to like figure out an alternate isn't going to kill people in their food.
I think, is a pretty reasonable restriction of put on people.
So for all those reasons we should ban trans fat usage in food.