One crucial thing to keep in mind throughout this debate.
Oppositions are going to tell you that the harms from beauty, pageants aren't, so great or that they're not unique to beauty pageants, just remember while they're telling you this, but the benefit you get from beauty pageants is nonexistent.
The benefit is the entertainment of men sitting at home, enjoying seeing women paraded in front of them, that's, not a big enough benefit to excuse almost anything.
And we think the harms of beauty pageants are massive to such hard, won the perpetuation of negative north.
And two on the self, esteem impressionable, young women let's start talking about perpetuation of negative norms.
Three such norms, one objectification at the point at which women are paraded across the state diff dressed up differently.
Performing different acts always less close all ways just for their beauty judged by a panel of women and men, giving them literal number values based on how they look you're pushing women ever more into the box of an object of something that's to uproot be appreciated for what it looks like, as opposed to what it who it is, or what they say, or how they think.
Secondly, you perpetuate rape culture, not because women are scantily clad.
We think that's fine, but because of the way you objectify women, you perpetuate the notion that they exist for the appreciation and enjoyment of met want to perpetuate that notion you perpetuate the idea that it is within a man's right to take what is his that he can use the women for his enjoyment because that's what they're doing up on stage in front of everyone.
Lastly, it perpetuated gender norms, it's, not just that they're scantily, clad it's, not just that they're parading around, but they always get voted on their ideals and supposedly what they perform in their accent, their speeches nude note that consistently over years, the winners are people who talk about things like happiness in joyful next and world peace and perform things like art and happy thinking you've never seen a woman go up there and perform a chemist expire experiment because that's just not ladylike.
So we figured perpetuate gender norms, crucially, we're, not think the women up there, didn't choose to be up there for saying that them being up there is harmful to women all over the world and do it as harm to other people should be discontinued second let's talk about self esteem and impressionable young women, two things we can't think this stuff one if high self esteem to beauty, how to do that, you think childhood tropes of value, things like the word, queen thrown around in beauty, queen or princess things like a crown given to the winner and a sash given to everyone who participates the ball that these people enter into all of this terminology, all of the strokes, throw women back to the stories that were told us children and to the equations they create of what is valuable in this world using that they portray you value as external good looks.
The second thing that they do is safe set in unachievable unachievable high bar to this value.
So they tell women you are to be valued based on how you look, they do this literally buy value in women based on how their looks they they look and setting it to tropes of what should be important to women all around the world.
And then they make that goal way too high to achieve way too difficult.
What is all this do with that the depression that that's an eating disorder that that's in all the happiness all of this for what for that.
A few people can enjoy watching a few pretty girls scamper around on stage.
We don't think it's worth it, please cancel, beauty pageants.