Two things in this debate.
One on how blocks bring more power to the region and to on how economic dependence between nations is a good thing, particularly in an otherwise rather tense region of the world, a few points of refutation diallo before we go to the arguments.
One yell starts out with the assumption that this is being tried for years and has failed we're, not entirely sure where he gets the notion that it failed.
He goes on to tell you that countries like singapore and malaysia, or some of the richest countries in the world that's because their GDP has been rising for years that doesn't seem like failure.
Also, these countries haven't had a war between them in years also probably a good thing like we're, not sure what the mark of success ya others trying to reach is, but it seems that these countries are at least partially doing well that may be a marker of success to yeah, I'll says look there's, no unifying factor, exactly the point young never tells you why religion or type of governance is the form of unifying factor, which tells you is in order for countries to care for each other to cooperate.
They need a reason, something that unifies them.
Crucially, we see no reason why this unifying factor can't be invented.
We think the ASCA end is exactly that unifying factor by signing these agreements by signing these accords, they are actively creating a unifying factor, something that if they win, they all when, and if they lose, they all lose this is the way that countries unite together regardless of history, we think that's a great unifying factor.
Thirdly, alice says there's imbalance in ACA, and some of the countries are rich, some of them are poor, and that creates tensions.
He sort of right, you have to compare to the counter factual it's, not like outside of ACA and thailand would've been rich, there would've been poor and probably would have been substantially poorer and it's not like that wouldn't have gone to singapore, malaysia for money and for assistance because they would have needed the assistance.
The only problem is they would have had to re negotiate better that time and time again that would've been turned down half the time that's the kind of thing that creates on comfort that's, the kind of thing that creates tensions between two countries.
So their right to an extent, the fact that some of the countries are richer and other countries are poor creates tensions, but it's the kind of tensions you get between your older brother and younger brother, not the kind of tangents you get between a poor person in the back and that's what we're trying to keep first argument blocks bring more power by uniting in ASCA and they've created more than just eight economic agreements have also created a voting block.
This voting bloc is beneficial to them in more than just a if the a and but also outside of it in places like the u n or in places like the WTO.
This is massively beneficial to each and everyone of these countries because the loan they are very weak in voting power, but together they actually have some sort of influence on a global level.
Secondly, economic dependence between nations in a tense region, the very good thing.
If you look at what happens in a lot of the rest of asia, there are tensions between countries.
The reason there are tensions between countries is because there's a battle between countries over resources over land over geographical areas at the point at which you're economically dependent on other nations within the region, the likelihood of tensions between those nations drops significantly, and that we think is one of the most crucial thing that any accords do, please continue to support a I CN.