The utility to a potential life that is a human because it has the potential to become human because being human is about being able to continue to grow as a human, not only does the government, not make a lot of sense and rely on it.
Tautological statements also extremely utilitarian in a debate that is very emotional in a situation that is very emotional.
You can't always ignore what's, going on with the women just because you prefer to look away and way utilitarian costs, there's more to english than just well anguish is, you know, not as bad as death.
I did discuss a few things on my side of the house, and through my discussion of the atom birth abortions must be allowed I'm also going to oppose what was said on the government side of the house.
So first let's address the question when is partial birth abortion actually utilized let's put some context into this debate because no woman waits until their second or third trimester to abort a fetus just for fun, awhile, I'll just go through five six, seven months of morning sickness, which is actually all day long, sickness feeling a baby kick, a fetus kicking around inside of me, feeling sick, having emotional ups and downs growing this fetus inside of me, but now I've just changed my mind that is rarely the case that is almost never the case.
What we are talking about are specific types of cases where the mothers at risk either physically or emotionally or the fetus is at risk, or the mother's simply didn't know she was pregnant until it is too late to have any other kind of abortion.
We think.
And that is often in the case of teen pregnancies with these are all the diesel give us a little bit more contextual understanding of who this woman is standing in front of us is somebody who who has the anguish of having a parasite inside your room, kicking you from within that is not something that can simply be disregarded and said, well, death is worse.
You know what death is not what we're talking about here partial birth abortion is the termination of the pack of cells it's, not a life.
It might be a potential life, but it's not life.
Yet right now in this brings me to my second point.
A fetus is simply a person inside the woman's body in the woman is the one with bodily autonomy, she must have complete autonomy over her body, and that means up until the very minute that the parasite is out for that the fetus is out for she should have complete control over what happens to it until the fetus is delivered state.
The fetus is totally reliant on the woman's body is a parasite.
It is her decision fetuses would really suck calcium from a woman's bones, the steel nutrients, the abuse, the mother's body from with it, it has to be a woman's choice to terminate the pregnancy at any stage road, especially bearing in mind that it's rarely that is really done outside of very extreme circumstances at we see this idea that like it's clear the fetus would be able to survive at this point.
We say, first of all, it's not clear at all there's a good reason why it's inside the womb for nine months, it needs those nutrients, it needs that protective atmosphere order to us to grow and develop and it's a very encyclopedia that a fetus would survive earlier than eight to nine months birth.
But second of all to what end are we talking about here right like if we can grow feet a fetus outside of the womb completely does that mean that women will never be allowed to have an abortion will never be able to decide.
Actually this was a mistake I took my hat, I took protective measures where I was raped or whatever it is, and they will be allowed to let be allowed to terminate at all what about then masturbating is that would be not allowed because you'll be able to at facilitate out of the womb of the woman conception.
We think that these are things you need to take into account when you're talking about this like the fact is that the only way we can determine life is once it is actually independent in and of itself before that the woman must have bodily autonomy.