We should legalize polygamy.
So just so everyone's clear over talking about this debate.
We think that in countries where polygamy is currently illegal, such as the united states, britain, canada, that these countries should stop prosecuting people for polygamy should add it to the books is something legal if they need to do so because of a civil code or get rid of a law that prevents it if they have common law all that, but on top of that, but polygamy, we mean, the practice of someone taking more than one spouse were okay with just being one husband with many wives, one wife with many husbands or if that district would otherwise allow what you could also have same sex, polygamous polygamous marriages were fine with that if it would otherwise be legal in that country.
So yes, in the united states know in germany, for instance, so with that in mind we have three arguments today.
The first is that banning polygamy is tantamount to religious discrimination it's nice that the reason why polygamy is been banned in countries like the united states for britain is because there's a strong norm against polygamy in it certain christian denominations, we see that the catholic church, for instance, has preached against public at me for hundreds and hundreds of years and the catholic countries overwhelmingly perhaps all of them banned polygamy, we think that first of all, it's unfair for countries to make law based on religious norms, we think that individual should be free to choose to follow or not to follow these religious laws.
First of all, if people have a real choice about following a religious custom in the probably not actually doing anything to fill their spiritual obligations but on top of that, we think that for instance, if you are a muslim living in predominantly catholic country, you should still be able to practice polygamy because that's acceptable within the confines of your own faith, a good example of this is why polygamy was banned in the united states.
Some of you may know that mormonism is a religion which originated in america and which encouraged until very recently its followers to practice polygamy, so the united states banned polygamy and used it as a way to prosecute mormons as a religious minority throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth century, mormon leaders eventually change their rules in order to end persecution by the american government.
But we think that this is completely on just and that if people wish to practice polygamy due to a certain religious obligation that they should be free to do so in the same way that people are free to practice anything else, religious that doesn't harm others.
Our second argument is that polygamy is a victimless crime in general.
We think the government should only intervene in people's personal freedom to limited when they're actually going to be third party harms.
We think that, for instance, it's okay to ban smoking because second hand, smoke puts other people at risk of lung cancer, located band theft because you don't have a right to take other people's things, but we don't see any real harm to polygamy.
Why is this true.
So in order for people to get married, they have to enter into a contract, which means that they can't be coerced because presumably the going to have to go before a judge and say that they want coursed in order to get this marriage contract rules like the minimum age for getting married or still going to exist.
So we're not worried about young women being pressured by older men, polygamous marriages like some people might say would happen.
We think that everyone will have to follow all of their existing laws.
So that point there's no real harm because people are consenting into this, and it ought be permitted to maximize personal freedom.
Our third argument is that bands on polygamy are unenforceable.
Why is this true so in a country like the US that has strict laws against polygamy and this had them for over a hundred years, we see that there's still no way to stop people from living in a polygamous fashion, lots of people never go down to city hall to get a marriage certificate or whatever you may do in other countries.
They just choose to live as husband and wife treat each other like such.
We see that marriage is predominantly a social and religious phenomenon and not the government one at that point you can't stop people from having polygamous marriages in a religious or social setting so there's ultimately no reason to ban it from a legal perspective because you can't prevent the actions in themselves only the state recognition of those actions to at the end of the day we think we should legalize polygamy in order to end religious discrimination because it's a victimless crime and because the law is unenforceable.
Thank you.