This school education should not be mandatory so we're going to explain to you why primary and secondary school students ought not be required to participate in jam or other physical education activities were obviously finds letting people opt into it or with having optional after school sports, but we don't think they should be compulsory.
Our first argument is about when the state should intervene to make something compulsory.
And this is what we heard from the last speaker about as well we're going to propose a slightly different standard, though, we think that the state should do something for people when there is an imbalance in power or information that the state needs to correct war when there are harms to third parties and I'll explain in a minute way, I don't think that the objective good is a proper standard.
So why is there no information asymmetry in this instance, we think, first of all, the children know who probably speaking that exercise is good for them, even from a very young age what's more, they know that sport is an important part of their lives, and if they want to participate in sport, but even if you think that children can't make these decisions for themselves or maybe that, you know, fifteen year olds can decide this but eight year, olds can't, which might be fair, we allow children's parents to correct for these imbalances and information all the time.
Certainly, every parent knows that exercise and sports are an important part of children's upbringing.
So we think that we should defer to putting parents make this decision rather than schools after all every child is different needs.
And we think that parents ultimately know these better than the state at the point where we let parents make decisions like whether or not their children are going to work during high school or how to name them or what religion to have them practice.
We think that we can also trust them to decide if their kids ought to play football or not in terms of third party harms I just don't think that there are any harms to other groups because one set of individuals doesn't choose to exercise during primary school at the end of the day.
This is a personal choice, and we think that it ought be left to individuals so there's no reason for the government to get involved now we'll talk about a third standard that I want to deal with real quick.
He told you that an objective good is a proper standard for state intervention, but I'll show you why this is absurd.
It would be an objective good if everybody ran three miles every day, and if we all put a very high premium on physical fitness, but the government doesn't tell thirty seven year olds that they have to go and run a five k every day.
So why should we tell sixteen year olds that they have to do so now it's true that we treat children differently from adults in some respects, but if you think that the absolute good is sufficient reason for the government to abrogate personal freedom, then you should apply it to everyone and make everybody go out and play a game of soccer every saturday and run three miles every day since it's clear that we wouldn't do that I don't see why they should apply to children as well.
I don't think that's a good standard for state intervention.
Our second and final point is about the purpose of education because let's remember we don't take all these kids away from their families and send them off to school for ten hours a day for fun.
We do it because we need to train them as citizens and workers.
This is why we train them in a liberal arts skills, things like history and english, so they can be better citizens and practical skills, such as technical skills or computer skills so that they can go on to get good jobs.
No, I don't see how physical education directly contributes to this it's true that people will be healthier in the long run if they do more physical education, but it doesn't directly make them a better citizen.
There are many people who are not physically fit who still vote and participate in public life, and it doesn't make them a better worker either in the same way.
We see that many overweight people or disabled people are able to be good workers.
So I just don't think that this for fills the purposes that society sets for education and therefore it has no place in our schools for all these reasons, physical education should not be mandatory.
Thank you.