We should ban partial birth abortions.
So what this debate is about is abortions are performed in the late second or the third trimester of the pregnancy in which the fetus is partially extracted and has its brains scooped out by a doctor, and then the fetus is removed so these abortions are performed for many reasons some might be performed at the mother's request.
Others might be performed for the safety of the mother were because the fetus has already died up, but we are opposed to this in any instance where it isn't medically required.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments.
The first of which is that killing the fetus that is able to feel pain is ultimately wrong we're, not contending that the fetus is the same as of a baby that is already been born.
But what we are saying is that if you look at the net harm to the fetus purse, the mother you're going to weigh down on the side of the fetus in every single instance, why is this true let's.
Consider the worst case where a mother has severe illness or mental health harms that are actually being suffered from her by the pregnancy would be okay with this in those instances, because there is a clear and present danger to the mother's life in the form of mental illness.
But at other times, when a person may not want to bring a child to term isn't experiencing this anguish for mental illness, we think that it's true that there is a certain amount of suffering in disputed would be going on, but the loss of all future utility to that fetus compounded with the disputed lee of having it says self be killed by a doctor clearly you're always going to weigh those harms, much more highly.
We see that, for instance, the anguish caused by this pregnancy is going to be temporary, where is the harm of being dead ultimately ways on forever aside from that we see that although the fetus isn't a person right now it's clearly has the potential to develop into one many children are born prematurely, added a and survive at an age when this type of abortion would be performed so it's clear that the fetus would be able to survive and develop into a healthy human given the opportunity to the end of the day.
We think that it is fundamentally on ethical to kill a fetus that's the potential to become a citizen in the future, and that on top of that in your moral decision making you want always consider more highly the person who served or being that serves to lose the most rather than being that serves to have the most rights in the status quo.
This is why, for instance, even though animals obviously have lesser moral standing in humans, we still don't.
Let people have cock fights say, because although there might be utility for the people who just that sported a disk utility to the roosters is much greater now we're not trying to compare these mothers who want abortion cock fighters, but we do think that at the end of the day, it would be unethical for the state not to consider what is best for the fetus given this tremendous amount of disk utility versus the utility to the mother, which do not marginal is still lesser our second argument is that we think that it is unjust or unethical for doctors to participate in these partial birth abortions remember that when someone becomes a medical doctor, they swear the hippocratic oath which basically states they will never do any intentional harm to human beings now it's questionable at what point a fetus becomes a person, but certainly they are human being in the biological sense.
We think that doctors ought not be performing this late term abortion that involves killing a fetus they're for because the fetus one is going to develop into a person and to meets our standards for what human is, namely, the ability to continue on as a human being, I suppose whatever standard you want to use.
We think that doctors are violating one of the oats that they took a very serious one.
Moreover when they perform this type of abortion, we think that the government should step in to prevent them from doing so since the state takes responsibility for regulating doctors and for managing medical ethics so there's a clear precedent for government to intervene to prevent doctors from committing misty week misdeeds.
And ultimately this would fall into that category server these to reasons we should ban on partial birth abortions.
Thank you.