We should lower the drinking age so we're going to argue that in jurisdictions where the drinking age is higher than the age of majority, it should be lowered to the age of majority.
So in america, it should be lowered from twenty one to eighteen in ontario, it should be lowered from nineteen to eighteen and so on arguments for our side today, first, we think that the law needs to be principally consistent in order to be legitimate right now in the US in ontario in other regions around the world, you can vote as soon as you reach the age of majority you can serve in a military sometimes against your will you can get a job, you can buy a car or a house, but you can't buy beer.
We think that ultimately you undermine the effectiveness of the law when it appears arbitrary in people's eyes, if people think that the laws arbitrary they're more likely to disrespected if they think that the law is fair and just and they're more likely to respect it.
So right now, when people can't buy a beer, but they can buy a shot gun in america, we think that people think the law's absurd and this tells them that the law is not something that they need to respect in a very highway.
So we think that ultimately because of the high prevalence of underage drinking which is impossible to prevent you undermine respect for the law in general and create a culture where people try to avoid the law and get out of doing things that are legal that is extremely widespread, probably a large majority of americans and on to a canadian teenagers drink long before they reach the age when they're permitted to if the law were principally consistent, we think more people would have respect for the law and you wouldn't have that culture.
So ultimately we should lower the drinking age for that reason if someone can buy a gun, we say let them buy a beer.
Our second argument is about personal freedom really said the people were discussing in this debate are all adults.
We trust them to make other decisions on their own.
Well being for instance, what kind of health care they want to have what education they want to pursue their past, the age at which the state is making decisions for them like making them go to high school.
We think that with this in mind, it's important, we defer to individual freedom for a few reasons.
One drinking doesn't, really harm anyone else it's a personal decision.
Remember that drunk driving is illegal either way.
At that point.
We think that governments in general should defer to letting people make their own decisions if no one else at risk, the reason this is true is that people know their own interests better than anyone else knows their interest there's a poverty of information that you and I have about any third person, they know facts about their own life that we don't have access to.
They know about their own experiences in a way that we never will with that in mind.
We should defer to letting these individuals make the wrong decisions about whether alcohol consumption is right for them.
And I think it's quite likely that if you gave people this freedom and respect that things like binge drinking culture, what actually decrease because people would be empowered to make responsible decisions rather than encourage to make a responsible ones like drinking too much or drinking illegally.
Our third argument today is that we are opposed to public morality in general.
The main case for making it more difficult for young people to buy alcohol is that certain parts of the population think it's immoral to drink alcohol or to drink alcohol in excess we think again that individual should be free to make their own decisions.
If certain christians in america and canada don't want to drink alcohol in excess or don't want to drink it all or don't want to drink until they're older those people should have every right and freedom to do so, but they shouldn't be able to impose their will on people of other religions who don't have these particular beliefs.
We think that in effect, higher drinking ages are a form of morality that's imposed on the general public and that this is not the role of the state.
Ultimately, the government should protect people from each other.
It should uphold the law but the water it implements should recognize individuals on economy and not apply one form of viewing the world or one way of life on to everyone for these reasons we should lower the drinking age.
Thank you.