We should limit the right to asylum.
So in this debate, we're, not going to say that country should stop offering asylum completely, but rather the issue be extremely discerning in who was granted asylum, a few reasons why they should be the case first there's, a tremendous cost to society of having the right to asylum most often people who come to a country for asylum don't have the means to support themselves instead they rely on some form of public largesse to support themselves until they're established.
So that point you are people receiving benefits from the state to have never paid in in the form of taxes and who are not currently producing anything for society, while it's true that some of these people might be great thinkers are scientists as we saw from people fleeing germany in the second world war, many others are likely to be on skilled people who were just the victims of circumstances in their home countries such as many of the syrian refugees, we think that in order for states to continue to provide for their own people, which must be there first and foremost concern they need to limit the right to asylum.
Our second argument is that if you don't limit the right to asylum thin people will take advantage of it in ways that we don't tend right now, it's very difficult for most people to immigrate to a country like the united states, while it's relatively easy to gain asylum by comparison, we think that if it is easier to gain asylum, the to go through immigration channels that more people who are actually immigrants will seek to have themselves labeled as asylum seekers as an example of this consider how many of the syrian refugees have rather than staying in greece or eastern europe pressed on to germany because they want to live in a wealthier more powerful country rather than merely stay in the first country that can offer them asylum.
We think that this is unfair to two groups.
One citizens of these countries who now have these people coming in was limited skills and limited ability to contribute to the economy and to legitimate immigrants who are now effectively sent to the back of the line behind these asylum seekers.
Many people did on waiting lists for immigration for years and years and now we're unable to move to the country that they worked so hard to get into because asylum seekers are taking their spaces.
We think that this is grossly unfair to those groups.
And lastly, we would argue that we should limit the right to asylum in order to preserve it in the long term.
In other words, if there continues to be huge potential for abuse with the right to asylum, then more and more countries are going to get rid of this right and tightly, we think that it would be preferable for countries instead to limit the right to asylum that's, the comparative in this debate it's, not the continued status quo where countries are relatively generous with access to asylum.
It is a world in which right wing politicians, especially populist, like donald trump or marine le pen, are able to use the threat of people coming in to take jobs or to work as a tool to become elected and then to crackdown on issuing asylum at all too.
If you think that it's important that people have access to this right when they need such as victims of the syrian civil war, then you need to promote a more conservative, the use of this right to asylum offering it to too many people will undermine political support from even the most generous populous is at this point.
We tell you that the right to asylum needs to be limited in order to protect the citizens of the country where these asylum seekers would go on to live in order to protect the people who are trying to come into the country legally through other forms of immigration and on top of that in order to protect the right to asylum in the wrong turn long term.
So for these reasons we should limit the right of asylum.
Thank you.