We should abolish the u s electoral college.
So for those who don't know the american president is not elected by the american people.
Instead the american people vote for representatives to go from their state to a group called the electoral college who then select the president amongst themselves.
We have a few reasons why we think this practice should be abolished and replaced with the nationwide popular vote.
First, we tell you that the electoral college is fundamentally undemocratic.
Why is this.
So the way that seats are allocated in the electoral college is that every state gets one seat according to and the number of representatives and senators they have this is a problem because every state gets two senators and because the smaller states are still guaranteed at least one representative, what that means is that each electoral college person in california represents hundreds of thousands of people where is in wyoming, they likely only represent a couple tens of thousands of people some people's votes count as much as five or six times more than other people's votes.
And we think that this is fundamentally antithetical to the idea of liberal democracy.
We think that people in california deserves the same representation by the president as people in wyoming and recognize that because of the way the system is set up people don't even campaign in many of the most populous states like new york, texas and california, ultimately they ignore those voters to instead focus on people who are disproportionately powerful because of the electoral college like voters in iowa and ohio.
So those people have a huge amount of say and control over the president's policies and the future of the country relative to the vast majority of people who live in safe states like california that will always go to one particular party.
Our second argument is that we think the electoral college causes unnecessary conflict and degradation of democracy in the united states, if you'll recall in the two thousand election, george bush and al gore suit each other, and ultimately the new president was selected by the supreme court rather than an elected body.
The reason why this is so was that the electoral college is vague and its proceedings don't make any sense states allocate their electors according to a winner, takes all principle, which means that a difference of two hundred votes in florida, which is a rounding error in a state of twenty million people ultimately decided the presidential election at that point it's up to courts to recount votes if they're challenged by the candidates, and ultimately you lied to months long, very expensive recount process sees it wouldn't need to take place in the event of a popular vote because no president is ever won the national popular vote by two hundred votes, but that often happens in given states, but not only does it create conflict in that sense.
It also creates conflict in the sense that many people living in larger states are resentful and are more willing to back politicians in other sectors, such as the senate and house of representatives who will represent their interests at the expense of the nation because they don't feel represented by the president.
So we think this undermines cooperation and also the perception of fairness in american democracy, and that this is very likely one reason why the US has chronically low voter turn out the final reason we should abolish the electoral college.
And this seems so obvious that I'm shocked that such intelligent man is james madison, what the system going to affect his that allows for ties right now if the electoral college is tied in the senate, I believe breaks the vote, not important who someone in the legislature, but why would you have a system for choosing the president that allows for ties you don't allow even numbers of people on corporate boards, you don't, I will have an even number of judges on things like american idol.
It just seems tremendously fullest to allow such an ineffective metric for choosing the president and the other team may see that ties are unlikely, but they're certainly not impossible, especially given that some states always vote in a particular direction.
We think that day shortcoming alone should be enough reason to get rid of the electoral college for these reasons it should be abolished.
Thank you.