We should not introduce universal healthcare.
I want to clarify a couple of things before I launch into our three constructive arguments.
The first is that this universal health care implies that people have some sort of buy in whether that be requiring people to have private insurance as is the case in some countries or introducing some sort of public insurance scheme like the united kingdom has ultimately people are paying for their premiums, either in the form of taxes or payments to a private insurance company and all universal health care does this require everyone to do this and not allows people to choose to opt out is the used to be able to in the united states.
So from this perspective, even the united states, which requires people to purchase private health care, has universal health care.
Our first argument is that it is unfair to make young people subsidize older people, how does health insurance work basically healthy people have to buy a product that they don't need in order to let less healthy people get that product at an affordable price.
So young people who probably don't need to go to the doctor more than once a year for a quick check up, are forced to pay for very expensive insurance schemes.
So that elderly people who consume huge amounts of resources are able to receive those same treatments more cheaply.
We think that this is fundamentally unfair people ought not be forced to subsidize others and take on huge risks to themselves.
But I think in particular that it's unfair because elderly people are not asked to subsidize young people in the same way in countries like the US or britain, for instance, young people have to pay huge amounts of money to attend university and don't receive public subsidy to do so.
So ultimately, we think that this is a one way street that you're requiring younger people to pay for the elderly and not investing in a similar way in helping the young.
We think that if anything society should work, the other way it should take from older people who have had time to accrue more resources and give it to younger people who happened and who represent the future.
This also punishes healthy people by extension.
If you run every day for your whole life and eat a healthy diet, then you're much less likely to need expensive health care in your old age than someone who smokes a pack a day and it's nothing, but cheeseburgers so healthy people are being forced to pay for the health insurance to people who made forced decisions this one disincentive vices people from making good decisions and to punishes people who did make good decisions which we think fundamentally is unfair.
We think that if you choose to make decisions that make your health care costs lower that you shouldn't have to bear the higher cost for those who didn't make those good choices at the end of the day, forcing everyone to pay for health insurance, whether through a government scheme like national health in britain or through mandatory private insurance like obamacare is unfair to many groups of society, it either punishes them based on an intrinsic characteristic like age war, it punishes those who made good decisions and privileges those who make poor decisions we think either option is unacceptable.
Our third and final point is that this forces people to fund controversial treatments in the united states, no federal money may be used for abortions, but we still see that government health money goes to fund things like treatments that would not otherwise be covered for instance, treatments that use stem cell research, which many people consider to be unethical.
We don't think that people ought to be compelled to pay for treatments which are contrary to their own moral principles to do so undermines the ability of people to live according to their own ethical principles when they don't conflict with anyone else if people want to receive abortions, we think that that's fine if people want to use the products of stem cell research were similarly okay with that, but we think that it's wrong to compel christians to pay for that which necessarily and national healthcare scheme that pays for those things would do.
So at the end of the day, we oppose forcing people to purchase insurance because it's unfair to certain groups based on their beliefs.
Thank you.