We should end cheerleading.
So we think that the u s predominantly but also other countries for cheerleading has taken hold should pass legislation to end public support for it, and that we shouldn't have things like cheerleaders at pro sports games or parades and other events we would prefer a world for cheerleading was done away with even if it's not explicitly banned a couple of arguments from our side.
The first is that we think cheerleading is demeaning to women.
It is route cheerleading, the queets women's appearance with men's ability.
So because cheerleading is usually associated in the US for almost all cheerleaders are located with sports like football.
Ultimately, you are equating the football players with the cheerleaders.
But how are these two things different.
The football players are exhibiting athletic prowess and incredible skill and talent in a way where people respect them because of the hard work they put in and their incredible skill.
The cheerleaders certainly do work hard.
And I don't want to say that they're not and that they don't have skill because clearly they do and their routines are quite complex, but they're being valued more for their appearance and attractiveness more than anything else what's more they're being used as a display to encourage the football players and to encourage fans to be more supportive of their team, rather than being celebrated in their own right.
And while it's true that there are now standalone cheerleading competitions today, people still generally associate cheerleading with this traditional role that they've had in encouraging football players and other athletes to play better and encouraging people to route better for their mail compatriots.
So ultimately because cheerleading reduces women to the status of props for men's athletics, we think that this is really demeaning that it encourages people to ignore these women's abilities or skills or talents and only look to their appearance and how well they encourage the fans to root for their male counterparts.
Ultimately the seems very demeaning to the women who participate in this, and we think that the alternative world in which these women are playing sports on their own or participating in other activities where they can be celebrated and rewarded for their hard work would be a better one compared to the world in which they are cheerleaders.
I know the other side will say that people like opt into being cheerleaders and want to do this, but that doesn't mean that it's a good thing, people make bad decisions all the time.
And even if people want to do something that doesn't mean that it's something that's good for them, our second argument is that we think this is explicated of of little girls timidly there's, nothing wrong with sexual lies in grown women who are sexual beings and or have the ability to consent into this and understand it, but because cheerleading is something that so sexualized, we think it's problematic that it's so prominent for young women or young girls to participate in many girls begin cheerleading even before middle school when they're pre pubescent yet the outfits that they wear and the routines that they perform are still sexualized.
And this only continues into high school or middle school when the girls are sexualized even further, especially by a media that often betrays them as the natural people for athletes to date or have sex with.
So we think that ultimately it's somewhat creepy and certainly explicated to encourage little girls to go into an activity that sexualized system and treats them more as objects for the enjoyment of these athletes than it does as individuals.
Moreover, we don't think that these girls can positively opt in to becoming cheerleaders because they're too young to understand the implications of the sexual implications of the activity that they're participating in so ultimately because this is demeaning to women and because it sexualized as young girls, we think that we should and cheerleading thank you.