We should abolish intellectual property rights, so by intellectual property rights or IP rights, if you prefer, we mean things that are the creations of the mind we're talking about patents, copyrights and artistic creations among many other things of similar nature, three arguments for why we should abolish IP rights.
The first is about spurring more innovation, so recognize that copyrights and patents in particular serve to limit the ability to innovate.
If one person comes up with a really good idea, nobody else is free to build upon that idea.
First long as it's held under copyright.
See the prince since think about computing technology, you have new chipsets that are created by a company like intel, and then for the next twenty five years, no one.
But intel is allowed to innovate based off of that chipset without intel's permission, which means that either intel can charge other companies, a bunch of money to license the property at which point they have a huge competitive advantage and also prices are higher for consumers.
And this slows innovation, or we rely on one company to innovate in house, which means that you have fewer great minds thinking about an issue and ultimately disposed down development and innovation in general, what this means is that you don't get new computer technology, they can save lives in the medical sphere.
You don't get new medications as quickly because we have to wait for things to go generic before we can innovate based on them.
Ultimately, we think that many lives would be saved and quality of life would be higher if we abolished IP rights, our second argument is about why we think that this would help your country compete because recognize if we're talking about abolishing IP rights, we must mean that we're doing this at a national level.
So given country, canada, say should abolish IP rights right now countries with very strong intellectual property protections are hamstrung by those same protections other countries in the developing world, especially are ignoring IP protections in china, they aren't respecting US copyrights on things like software and drugs, they are stealing intellectual property, and because of that they're able to develop a lot of new goods very cheaply, they're able to provide quality services to their people at a lower cost.
Your country is being out competed if you don't do the same thing because at the end of the day there's a sort of prisoners dilemma if everyone respected property rights that it would be kind of reasonable to continue to respect them.
But at the point, you know that other countries like india like china are cheating the system you were just harming your a business's ability to compete by choosing to respect those IP rights, you are denying your people access to cheap drugs and cheap quote equipment to do their jobs.
So we think that your country would be more competitive and therefore, as a government you'll be clear incentive to abolish IP rights to allow your country to thrive.
Our third argument and final point is about why we think this would be culturally beneficial realize that when one company owns culturally significant art or intellectual property did that makes it more difficult for other artists and groups to engage with that property, we think that, for instance, many characters that are very significant in western culture today like mickey mouse being held under copyright limits the ability of small artists for from different cultural backgrounds to access this cultural heritage, we think it would be preferable if art was treated as a common property, which everyone could engage with an innovative and and develop on top of and that this would lead to the best possible are emerging from the sort of marketplace of ideas for everyone could compete freely without government protection for certain artists and certain ideas.
So for these reasons because we get more innovation because we make our country more competitive and because we better get better art, we should abolish intellectual property rights.
Thank you.