We should ban on human cloning.
So by this, we mean that all nations around the world showed for big human cloning for any purpose we're, not going to make a distinction between so called therapeutic and reproductive cloning in this debate, we think that any cloning of human beings ought be illegal in every country around the world, sell two arguments for why we think this is the case.
The first is that we think that it would be deep again at the call to clone another human being because of the effect it would have on the clone once produced imagine the person that you create when you clone a human being create a person who has no mother, no father, someone who has no family, no place for the belong in society, presumably they're going to be raised by state or by these scientists who have created them.
So we think it's very, very improbable that this person will ever have a happy fulfilling normal life.
Ordinarily society goes to great lengths to facilitate children having happy normal lives that they can go on to become productive citizens.
We see that the state spends a great deal of money, facilitating adoptions to loving homes, for instance and a great deal of money, removing children from on happy homes.
So what happens when you have this cloned child who belongs to say, I don't know the university of michigan was being raised by a team of scientists who presumably does not receive the same kind of nurturing and love that a child being raised elsewhere would you're creating someone who then the best case lives in some version of foster care, and in the worst case is treated like a lab rat, we think that this is deeply troubling and completely unfair.
This clone child is no less deserving of an ordinary happy life than any other human being there, human, they have a soul like anyone else, but we think it's improbable that they will ever be provided with these opportunities.
We also tell you that it's deeply troubling that you give private corporations or university is the ability to effectively create people for their own ends.
We think that once you allow cloning it's likely that companies are going to clone people with certain traits in order to examine their genomes that you'll have people created for a very specific research purpose.
We think that this is likely to be those people to have severe psychological issues once they're old enough to understand that they were effectively created like a lab rat to spread to have brown for a we don't think that it's acceptable to put anyone particularly an innocent child into this situation.
So we ought ban cloning because it is clearly not in the interest of these hypothetical cloned children.
Our second argument is about the legal difficulties behind permitting human cloning, ordinarily a child's, a next of kin have a certain legal obligation to that child in some countries.
It might only be the parents in other countries.
This obligation might extend past the parents to other close relatives, but we see that no one has a legal obligation to the clone at least that's what it seems to me since they don't have a mother or father the way that another person would so does not really example the university of michigan have an obligation to feed and clothe this child.
We think that it's very impersonal to assert that that's the case, and we think that it's very like that you would end up with clint schow during who don't have clear legal guardians that they would follow the guardianship of the state, obviously something that we want to avoid because of both the expense to the public and also the way that it affects the child, but I also think it's troubling in terms of the relationship of the clone child to the cell donor because recognize you know someone was making clone of a person, maybe they would take one of my skin cells and grow it into a new clone.
What is the close relationship to me at that point.
We think that this is very unclear and that there's no satisfactory resolution to destroy the same obligation as a father or do I have no obligation because it is unfair to the clone first of all and secondarily because of legal difficulties we should ban human cloning.
Thank you.