We should adopt atheism by this.
We mean that people living in western countries today or highly developed countries today should not believe in a god so we're agnostic on other forms of supernatural phenomenon that we're arguing that you shouldn't believe in the christian god or a law or similar beatings, three arguments.
The first is about empiricism.
This is the idea that we should base our beliefs based on what we can observe in the physical universe.
This is the idea that underlies the scientific revolution that's created the world we live in today.
There is no empirical evidence for the existence of god, despite the best efforts of many very intelligent people to prove that there is I'm reminded the famous words of yuri gagarin when he first went into space, I looked and looked, but I did not see god ultimately, the physical universe has to date been able to be explained through a natural phenomenon with no need to resort to supernatural phenomena for an explanation.
What that means is that for people who want to define god is the explanation for what we don't know, god becomes an ever shrinking pocket of scientific ignorance, but what's more, we tell you that it's also problematic to base our ideas of god based on the absence of knowledge, short of any positive evidence for the existence of god, we tell you that we ought deferred to not believing in him this type of thinking, it's been successful in uncovering various scientific advancements in the past and generally advancing society.
So we think that it's a good standard to apply in this instance as well lacking any positive evidence for the existence of god, we should adopt atheism, our second argument concerns truth.
So essentially we tell you that you make a good faith attempt to believe what is true.
We think that this is important because if people don't attempt to believe the truth then it's difficult to form a consensus about how people live act or behave, if everyone determines their own effectively arbitrary standards for what is and is not true, then ultimately people have difficulty communicating with one another by pursuing the actual truth or the highest truth available to us.
We can all come to common ground with that in mind we tell you that there are a few reasons not to believe in god I've already spoken about empiricism and the lack of physical evidence for god, but we also like to point out that people probably ought be skeptical about new claims.
Consider the following it is not impossible that there is a giant teapot behind the planet jupiter, always blocked from sight on earth by the planet and invisible to probes by chance after as to when they won by the planet jupiter, but no one believes in this because people apply a certain standard of skepticism if someone makes a tremendous claim with no physical evidence, the burden is on them to back it up.
Similarly, we think the burden is on people who believe in god to prove that he does exist because the idea there's a super powerful being that created the universe baffles the mind it is not inherently into it is it something that's culturally constructed.
And we think that it needs to be proven before anyone off believe it if they're concerned with believing what is true, our third and final argument is about the problem of evil, and this effectively rules out believe in christian or muslim style.
God basically, christians and muslims believe that god is all knowing all powerful and on the benevolence, which is to say always good.
Yet the world is an evil place full of horrible things that happened to innocent people.
So it is impossible then that there is a god who knows and understands all these things omniscience has the power to stop them or not to have created them in the first place omnipotence and is always good on the benevolent because that being being always good would choose not to have things like hunger or genocide in the world that we live in.
But at that point we observe those phenomena in the real world.
We think it's clear that that god does not exist.
And since this is the god that most people globally believe and we think that ultimately, we should be atheist rather than believe in such a beating for these reasons we should adopt atheism.
Thank you.