We should ban fraternities by this.
We mean to say that american colleges and universities should ban fraternities and sororities.
These are single sex, social clubs, which usually own houses on a university campus where their members live, which host kind of raucous parties and other social events for their members and their friends and which generally service the main social focus on campus, we have a few reasons why we think this fraternity should be banned by which we mean they should be shut down by their universities and have their house is taken away.
First fraternities are by their very nature exclusive there, almost all open to only people of one sex and many of them, excluded, transgender people and intersex people.
Defenders of fraternities will point out that some have recently become multi gender or more accepting.
But this doesn't really change the problem.
These fraternities have a limited number of spots, and they recruit people based on how much the appeal socially to the existing members, which means that because the fraternities were founded, is drinking clubs for rich, white boys they're going to remain drinking clubs for rich, white boys, maybe now they let in one or two asians or jews, but that doesn't really change their very nature.
These go back to very exclusive racist clubs, designed to perpetuate the old american, a lead in the early twentieth century.
And even if not all fraternities act that way all fraternities are modeled on groups that existed this.
And and we don't think that they should be allowed to continue to do.
So in particular, as we begin to encourage more inclusivity and less racism and less biased behavior.
Basically on college campuses, it's, contradictory to what organizations that exist to promote bias remain organizations that in trench bullying through hazing and their selection process sees our second argument is that fraternities promote a bad culture on college campuses.
I already mentioned, hazing and bullying.
The fraternity selection process by its very nature strips, people of many of their essential characteristics and then judges them based on how much they appealed to the people who are already members essentially the popular kids choose who gets to be a member of their club.
So bullying is baked into the system, but what's more because they choose who can and can't come to their parties effectively control access to alcohol for underage drinkers on campus fraternities use this control over alcohol to lure young women to their houses, get them drunk and then take advantage of them sexually.
This is why there are so many rape and sexual assault charges associated with fraternities.
Some studies indicate that being a member of a fraternity indicates that someone is twice as likely to commit sexual assault as not being a member of a fraternity.
So we think that it's clear that because they're encouraging bullying and much worse because they're encouraging sexual assaults that they should be banned the increased rates of rape and sexual assaults that happen because of fraternities are enough reason in themselves to ban these organizations and nothing.
The other side says about how they create brotherhood or encourage volunteer work is going to outweigh this.
And our final point is that fraternities and sororities hinder learning on campus universities exist to educate young citizens, but because fraternities often encourage their members to drink all the time instead of to work because they help their members to cheat in order to get through school without actually learning.
We think that they actually undermine the educational goals at the university, any fraternities do things like save old versions of exam so that their members can study them or get acts answers to questions from members who are older than them in the fraternity which lets people skirt around having to do actual work and actually learn so that they have more time to drink cheap beer and try to knock up freshman girls so because they prevent learning it because of the extremely harmful culture that they create and because they're so exclusive, we should ban fraternities.
Thank you.