We should not disbanded NATO.
I think that it's important to keep in mind that the comparative in this round is a world with a strong alliance of democratic states who use their military and influence to promote democracy around the world versus a world in which all of these countries act independently without comment policy.
We don't think that nations like the united states or britain would just stop interacting with the rest of the world using the military's, because there were no NATO, we think that they would do it in a worse way should too big arguments.
The first despite we think NATO promotes cooperation.
And ultimately, this is a good thing recognize that many of NATO's member states like germany and britain used to be enemies, but now our allies after world war, two, the united states, probably the best thing we've ever done as a country, forge this alliance out of the countries that used to plunge the world into war time and time again, the story of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries is constant conflict in europe, which is largely ended because under american leadership, NATO has created this alliance that forces all western european countries to work together, this prevented mass amounts of conflict.
We think since world war two, but on top of that, we think need it was good because the lines american interest with those of other countries, sir recognize that america's natural position in the world is perhaps isolationist america is far away from most other countries, and in many cases, our interests are more commercial rather than interventionist around the world.
But when the united states was involved in the rest of the world, other countries are much more powerful relative to their neighbors.
We think that countries like russia and china would be much more powerful on the international sphere without american involvement.
We think that it's preferable to have the united states is a very powerful democratic country.
Take an active role in the world as an american I'm gonna be the first to admit that US action in countries like vietnam and iraq has been regrettable.
But we think that checking russia engine, russian and chinese aggression around the world is still a good thing and there's no other country that would be able to do this.
The way the US can.
And that NATO is uniquely what draws the west into having an interest in protecting other countries, democracies and spreading democracy around the world.
We also think that the US is less likely to act unilaterally because of NATO.
Now the other team might say, look, you invaded iraq using your coalition of the willing, not NATO.
But if you look at your members it's effectively the same group of countries, the comparative in this debate isn't that america will completely stop fighting other countries is that we would do it without allies.
If you think that the u s abuses its power.
And now it seems that it would be much worse.
If the US wants to hold on to any group of allies like they are through NATO.
But aside from that, we think that even non members can benefit from NATO action.
The other team tells you that NATO's interventions have largely been a failure.
But if you look at yugoslavia in the nineteen nineties, we think that the NATO intervention ended the civil war, much more quickly than any local power could have because the US and britain were more powerful than the country's actually fighting.
But on top of that, we think that even though the accounts of genocide in the nineties were overblown now that we have the information we do now it's critical that when there were charges of genocide, the US and britain and other countries went in to try to prevent that we think that ultimately the world is a better place if you have a group of countries that are willing to go to war to prevent the genocide so therefore we think that NATO interventions can actually be a good thing and protect people.
Now the other team might say you haven't gone in to stop lots of other genocides, but look the comparative is that they did intervene in yugoslavia where is no one else might have without NATO aside from that we think that ultimately the big impact all of these points that NATO creates peace there's an old saying, if you want peace prepare for war by having the world's democracies work together to create strong militaries and a strong alliance network that makes any of them even the smaller countries like netherlands ported norway, too powerful to attack, we think that ultimately there's less likely to be conflict.
So the second big point we think in this debate is that NATO checks on democratic nations, yes, NATO threatens putin's russia, but we think this is a good thing if you think that right now despite the existence of an alliance of powerful democratic nations is still attacked, georgia has to attack ukraine.
We think that it's likely that he would also attacked the baltics if it weren't for NATO, we think that if anything the problem with NATO is that it has expanded east quickly enough and you may say the US and britain do bad things.
But at the end of the day, we still think that it's better to live in countries influenced by the US and britain than countries influenced by putin's russia in terms of quality of life and freedom for the people who live there.
And aside from that, we think that NATO is the main way in which democratic countries cooperate.
So if you want a powerful check on undemocratic nations around the world like russia like certain middle eastern dictatorships like china, NATO is the only game in town need was the only group of democratic countries that have shown that they are willing to intervene to protect democracy around the world, and while it may be unfortunate but lots of people have been harmed by their interventions.
We still think that a world where democracy is powerful, be protected is better than a world with a black this champion.
So for these reasons we should not disband NATO.