Bull fighting should be banned.
So bullfighting is a traditional admission called a sport or a game where a matador all lower sybil and tries to kill it.
It was I believe, invented in medieval spain and was popular in southern france and other parts of europe spread to latin america from spain, but predominantly is practice there and we're saying that it should be completely legal.
There, shouldn't be any phase out period, we would prefer that this happened tomorrow.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for why it all the band.
The first is that bull fighting is fundamentally cruel, recognize that this is a game made of torturing an animal.
We see that even countries like spain have banned cock fighting and other sports, which are cruel to animals and we don't see why bull fighting should be unique, it seems clear that bulls deserve moral consideration, recognize that while cattle are not the most intelligent creatures that certainly they prefer a pleasure to pain certainly given the opportunity, they will avoid die angle, take steps to preserve the room lives.
They may not be as intelligent as human beings, but we can see that clearly their preferences being violated when they're killed of versus when they're not, we think that moreover, not only are they being killed, but their tormented along the way there stabbed with swords is part of the game.
We see that ultimately, this is much worse than other ways that animals are mistreated in our society like the meat industry, because the torture is part of the the pleasure that people experience when they see a bull fight.
It seems that at the point we are violating the more or the is the wishes of a moral after that it's clear that this is unethical and we think that probably speaking state should intervene to protect prevent unethical behavior.
We see that other forms of animal cruelty had been banned, not because they harm the state in any way.
But because they're seen as an ethical, we see that it's a myth that it's banned for people to leader say, which is also an ethical.
So it's clear that governments intervene in this way regularly throughout europe.
We think that bullfighting should not be a special case, just because it has some cultural legacy things like cock fighting also have a cultural legacy, but they've been banned because they're fundamentally cruel.
Our second argument is that bullfighting harm spain's international image when you remind people that spain is a country where the national sport is tormenting animals, I don't think anyone has a positive reaction to the country.
We think that particularly because spain's economy is so dependent on tourism that this is something that they ought be aware of.
But moreover, we think that on a european scale this harm spain's image other european countries take a much stricter line against animal cruelty.
We think that it's very likely it in the future.
The european union is going to intervene if spain continues to refuse to ban it in itself.
What does that do to spencer national image of the european union has to intervene to ban animal cruelty.
Well, we think, first of all that makes it look like the country's government is incompetent which is already a risky given spain's poor governance leading up to and during the financial crisis, but two, we think it makes it more likely that the international community will be unsympathetic to spain in other spheres.
So we think that, for instance, if catalonia a region of spain, which wants to secede takes this to the next level and request european or international intervention to support their secession that it's much more likely that people will be sympathetic, especially given that catalonia has actually banned people fighting, although it's a traditional sport there as well in general, no matter what spain wants to do and its involvement with the international community, whether that be IMF loans or hosting the olympics, we think it will always be hindered by the fact that they had this stain on their national character in the form of bull fighting so because of the moral worth of the bowl and also because of the harm to spain's image bullfighting should be banned.
Thank you.