We should abolish the anti social behavior orders.
So these anti social behavior orders are a facet of british law, basically in which someone can be banned from doing a certain acts that's causing trouble in the community.
So maybe if they're harassing somebody or if they're causing a lot of loud noise, late at night, things like that, one of these anti social behavior orders can be issued by a civil court, which would then prevent the person from continuing that behavior.
And then if they breach that order, it works a little bit like a restraining order in that they would be very special teams that would follow from that breach.
So with this in mind, we have two main arguments for why we should abolish these anti social behavior orders.
The first is that criminal penalties ought not follow from civil court rulings what we mean by this.
So britain is a common law country, which means that criminal law and civil law are conducted separately by separate courts.
So in a criminal court, the balance of evidence is beyond the shadow of a doubt, so you have to go completely beyond any reasonable doubt in order to convict someone in a criminal court, where is in a civil court, the balance of evidence fifty percent.
So if you can prove that someone is fifty one percent likely to have been guilty, then you can get them in a civil court.
So these anti social behavior orders are issued by civil courts, which means that the balance of evidence is fifty one percent for the whoever is bringing the charge, but these anti social behavior orders also can carry criminal penalties people can run the risk of very serious financial penalties for long periods of public service its address if they violate these orders.
So what that means is that punishments which normally would have a very high standard of evidence to actually be kind carried out against somebody are now being carried out with a much lower standard of evidence.
We think that that is fundamentally unjust that when the court system was set up with this very high standard of evidence for criminal punishments it's because these are very severe punishments and we need to be sure that people are actually guilty before we carry them out against them, but these any social behavior orders essentially allow people to convict anybody that they think is probably guilty and then carry out the harshest punishments possible in british society.
At that point, we think that it's very likely that many innocent people are going to suffer from these harsher penalties because the standard for proof is so low, I think that this is fundamentally unjust that it blurs the lines between criminal law and civil law and that therefore it ought be abolished.
Our second argument is an argument against vagueness in the law.
We think that fundamentally, these anti social behavior orders can be construed to ban almost any sort of behavior and we don't think that you should have a law be this broad it's certainly true that we don't want people to harass one another, but we already have laws against that in every country the world, including britain in the same way we see that it's probably not good for people to make lots of noise at certain times of day.
But again, lots of city said, municipal codes that prevent that we think that there are better ways to deal with the problems that these anti social behavior orders a dress, which are much clearer.
We think it's important that people understand what the law is before they can be charged with breaking the law it's very likely the case.
Everyone knows that what they're doing is wrong if they're going to run up against an anti social behavior order, but whether something is right or wrong as a distinct issue from whether or not it's legal, we think that it should be crystal clear to every citizen exactly what is permitted.
What is forbidden and what the penalties are for forbidden behavior.
Otherwise we run the risk of holding different people to different standards, such as punishing perhaps people of color and a harsher rate than white people.
For instance, we think that any time you allow vagueness into the lawn you allow more bias on behalf of judges and ultimately that this will undermine the justice system is a fair way to deliver punishment server.
These two reasons we should abolish the anti social behavior orders.
Thank you.