We should ban school uniforms, so by band school uniforms, what we're really talking about is, we think that in places like britain where right now school children are required to all dress in the same outfit everyday.
We should do away with that practice and let children dressed themselves within reason were okay with things like dress codes.
I know requiring skirts to come to the needy or requiring that everyone talks are shared and things like that.
But we don't think that the school should tell children exactly how to dress sell two arguments first we're going to explain to you why we think this policy is bad for children and second we're going to talk about potential benefits of uniforms, but why we don't think they're the most important thing.
So why are uniforms bad for children.
First of all, we think that they stifle creativity recognize that young people can experiment with their identity and how they want to act in a relatively low cost way while they're in secondary school to if they want to try dressing up like people from different subcultures were experimenting with different looks, they can do that, and it won't affect their ability to get a job later in life.
We think that everyone is pretty sympathetic to the idea that teenagers in particular don't really know what kind of people they want to be yet and want to try out lots of different ways of acting.
So when you have uniforms to stifle the ability for children to experiment in this low cost setting, what type of person they want to be, we think that this will be to them having to figure these things out later in life determine if they want to be part of a certain subculture or how they want to dress and ultimately that they will have higher costs than in terms of their ability to gain employment, but we also think that young people don't learn how to dress if you give them a uniform there's, nothing more frustrating than being told to show up to an event business casual.
If you don't know what that means we think that when young people have to dress themselves for school, they learn skills like this, how to dress professionally how to dress for certain events, but they don't learn that is full of they have to wear uniforms because they dressed the same every day and don't have to put any thought into it.
So we think that uniforms, by removing the requirement to think about clothes actually create an unrealistic expectation for young people about what the world is like, because how you dress absolutely does matter socially and professionally and young people aren't learning to think about it if they were school uniforms next, although this next issue might some marginal, we think the harm to the people it affects our very great recognize that school uniforms really enforce the gender binary.
So if you have people who don't identify with the sex, they were assigned at birth, we think it's going to be very difficult for those people to have to wear school uniforms.
If you give people some freedom about how to dress, they can choose to subvert the sex.
They were assigned at birth and experiment with their gender identity and things like that.
But you can't do that if you have to wear a school uniform, if your school tells you the boys have to wear trousers and girls have to wear skirts and you're transgender.
You have no way to get around this policy.
And we think that that's likely to be very stifling for these people.
Mother may be relatively few transgender people.
We think that the harms of gender dysphoria are so great and the cost of living children dress themselves are so little that clearly we should defer to this concern.
And lastly, in terms of a financial burden, I'm sure that the other team is going to get a currency that schools can pay for the uniforms of children who can't afford them but there's no such thing as a free lunch, somebody is ultimately paying for the school uniforms and recognize the young people can't wear these uniforms outside of school they're normally not really fit for playing in or working and things like that.
So this basically requires low income students to have extra sets of clothes, and even if their parents don't have to pay for them directly which they probably do in some areas, but even if they don't this is just another big cost for the state to take on in providing education and would rather spend that money on other things instead.
So our second part of the speech is how we think that the alleged benefits are outweighed even if uniforms offer some discipline in classrooms, we don't think that this is unique to schools with uniforms, there are plenty of american or german schools for people don't wear uniforms that still have good classroom discipline.
So we think that it's more important to instill discipline than to teach people that they have to wear a uniform next even if uniforms remove some believing they don't remove it all we think that children are always going to be in kind to one another and requiring them to wear uniforms won't uniquely stop this or get rid of the problem, and even if uniforms create some sense of unity within a school, we think that they're still going to be lots of ways young people are excluded.
We think that you're likely to see some people are popular and others aren't.
We think you'll likely see, racism and bias and things like that remain so ultimately you're not going to create a strong sense of unity, three using uniforms.
So well, certainly there are some benefits you probably do get a little more discipline.
You probably live at some bullying.
We think that the harms that we expressed earlier are more important than these concerns.
So we should ban school uniforms.