We should introduce universal health care.
So by this, we mean to say that every country around the world should guarantee that all of their citizens have access to basic health care.
So this might look like the national health service in england where it might look like an expanded version of obamacare for private insurers would offer everyone insurance similar to the status quo in the US, but more extensive we're.
Okay, with any policy that ultimately ensures that everyone in your country can go to the doctor can fill prescriptions and can receive emergency care.
Three reasons why first we tell you that access to healthcare is a human right.
Why is this.
So the first reason if we think about of rights that arise by convention or agreement is that you and member states have all agreed that there is a right to healthcare.
We see that many one member states offer charity in aid to other countries, to guarantee that those countries citizens have access to health care because it's recognized as a fundamental human right, but it's also a facilitative rightly tell you most every country in the world guarantees people some rights, the right to work, the right to vote the right to speak to practice their religion.
And all of these things are contingent on access to healthcare people who are dying because they lack access to pharmaceutical drugs and the like can't access other political rights.
So we tell you that we need to introduce universal health care in order to uphold people's other rights, which are more explicitly granted by their nation's constitutions at that point we see that the spot the right by convention and a facilitative right so it's clear that we should introduce universal healthcare in every country.
Our second argument is actually that universal health care will save nations money in the long term let's think about what happened in america back before obamacare many people would get sick and not go see the doctor because they didn't have access to healthcare, then they would go to the emergency room where the law requires doctors to treat them.
So someone who started out with a case of pneumonia that it would have cost fifty euros to treat with antibiotics now goes to the hospital and consumes thousands of dollars of healthcare because they need their long strained and they need intensive medical treatment to last for days.
So we see that ultimately, we would have saved a lot of money by offering this person, a primary care physician or a family doctor, depending on what they call them in different countries, rather than having them turn to emergency services, but what's more.
We also see many people go bankrupt in the US and some other countries, although fortunately few of them because of a lack of access to healthcare people, for instance, who can't go to the doctor, go to the emergency room run up enormous bills, and then declare bankruptcy, which means that the hospitals lose money.
And ultimately, those hospitals have their debts written off by local or state governments because let's face it hospitals have to be funded somehow.
So ultimately, we think everyone would save money, and this would help individual citizens and also hospitals and municipal governments by offering health care.
Our third and final point is about economic growth.
So I'll talk about first developed and developing countries in the developed countries like the united states.
We think that the economy would grow and be more stable if more people were employed in the healthcare sector ultimately increasing access to health care will also increase demand for health care, which will lead to a health care blue in developing countries.
We tell you that a major problem is that many people are unable to find work because of illnesses that are easily preventable, many people in nepal, for instance, have cataracts and I disease that causes you to go blind.
This is easily treatable, but ultimately people without health care, can't access that so they're not able to work to become a drain on their community, but with basic access to health care, these people would be able to work once more and to contribute to their community.
So ultimately for these reasons we should introduce universal healthcare.
Thank you.