We should ban boxing.
So what we mean by this is that we think that countries which have strong regulatory agencies for sport ought to ban boxing, nothing tricky about what boxing is, you know, it's what mike tyson and all these people don.
So three main arguments for you the first to spot where we think the government needs to intervene, we think that the state should ban a certain behavior when there is a lack of information available for one group participating in that behavior.
So in this instance, we think that boxers slack information about boxing that would allow them to make intelligent decisions realize that the companies that promote boxing make great deal of money off of people being willing to participate in this activity, what that means that you have lots of businessmen who are interested in convincing young people that it's perfectly safe to box that there's absolutely no risk to their long term health and that'll make lots of money and get famous by choosing to do this, none of which is really true.
There are tremendous risks from concussions as we've seen with not only boxers but also other athletes that have long term health implications, an addition, most people never go on to become successful boxers.
We think that at the end of the day, the health risks greatly outweigh the vast wealth that someone like mike tyson might be able to accrue because of boxing.
So we think the state should intervene to protect other boxers who lack access to good information about boxing.
The second argument for going to advance in this debate is about why we think that boxing promotes violence so it seems pretty intuitive dead, a violent sport would encourage young people to view violence more positively than they would otherwise was that when young people grow up why in icing the boxers, their lan ising people who hate each other to solve their problems in effect, we think that at the point where we wouldn't accept school children as hitting each other or but he being in this fashion, we shouldn't encourage it on the public stage, either lionize again, activity normalizes the behavior in society it's, not just that you know, impressionable children are going to fight more if they look up to mike tyson is also that a culture which features boxing as a sport that's widely admired, is more likely to admire violence, rich large, we think that for instance, the lioness ation of soldiers of the line is asian of police and a violence in general is much more likely in a society that celebrates violence sport, we would prefer a world in which violence was seen as an unfortunate necessity when it does have to occur rather than something which is to be celebrated and glorified.
And we think that boxing is incompatible with that view of the world but certainly a world like that would have less violence, fewer people suffering from violence in the world we live in today.
The last argument that we're going to advance for you in this debate is that we think boxing is harmful for sporting culture recognize that boxing which promotes these very high stakes fights between two people I think that the fight between floyd mayweather and manny pacquiao was one of the most expensive pay per view events of all time a boxing encourages sporting culture to focus on one major event rather than on the chief meant over time.
We think that people are less likely to look at careers of excellence in other sport is something to celebrate as a result of boxing's prominence, because they're more likely to focus on one match, or in this case, one fight.
But on top of that, we think that because boxing is such a friendly sport to gambling and betting that it introduces a more gambling and that because boxers are notorious for throwing the fights in order to win money that this introduces more corruption into the sporting world in general, we would prefer that people focus on team sports which promote good values as opposed to boxing and in addition we're prefer that they focus on sports with less gambling and which are less prone to corruption.
So the end of the day we should ban boxing because of this lack of information for boxers because it promotes violence and because it harms sporting culture.
Thank you.