We should abolish the monarchy so in this debate in order to give some clarity because obviously the nature of the monarchy in saudi arabia is very different from in canada, we're going to focus on commonwealth countries.
These are constitutional monarchies, where queen elizabeth has some legal authority, but in general, the countries are run completely democratically comparably to republics, like france, or the united states accepted the queen is the source of legal authority and the head of state.
So with this in mind, we have three main arguments.
The first is about the finances that the crown costs to maintain.
We see that in britain, for instance, huge amounts of government properties are maintained for the private benefit of the royal family palaces like balmoral up in scotland, ultimately cost the british taxpayer thousands and thousands of dollars to maintain while only small parts of these cultural treasures are open to tourists for the general public.
So we think that if the monarchy for abolished, what would ultimately happened financially is that we think certain cultural properties like but a moral or buckingham palace would remain property of the public which they are right now in that other properties of less cultural significance, which are currently privately held by the royal family would become their own property.
So the royals would remain, you know, multi billionaires, they would certainly be very well off, but the cultural heritage and the tourism money that that brings in would remain in the hands of the british people.
Ultimately, we think that what this means is that the british people could avoid subsidizing a family of billionaires while maintaining many of the largest benefits of the royal family.
Namely tourism, our second argument is about the signalling effect that it has to ban the monarchy we think that first of all, the monarchy is a pretty sordid history in terms of relations with minority members of the british realm and also countries like canada and australia.
We see that during the nineteenth century, the monarchy worked assiduously to uphold things like british colonialism in india and that the monarchy condoned the mistreatment of aborigines and first nations peoples in canada, I think that at that point the monarchy sorted reputation reflects poorly upon those countries today, we think that they would do better to create a clean break with the past and move forward with a republican government which doesn't provide for legitimacy on a family whose acts should render them completely illegitimate in the eyes of the public, of course, queen elizabeth herself didn't do these things.
But we think that the fact that the matter is that the monarchy's legitimacy relies on this connection to victoria and her relatives who did all these terrible things during the colonial period, the last argument that would like to make is about improving international relations.
We think that the commonwealth of nations which is a sort of league of countries which are ruled by queen elizabeth ultimately does more harm than good for the country that are members of.
But in some ways we think that because by its very nature, the commonwealth excludes countries like the united states like india which have a lot in common culturally with the current commonwealth members, but who don't have a monarchy that ultimately the commonwealth creates more barriers than benefits.
We think that in a world without the commonwealth that countries like britain and canada would be more likely to pursue closer trade relationships with india and the united states, which ultimately would be economically and culturally beneficial for those countries.
We think that right now the existence of the monarchy may not be the greatest barrier to cooperation but that the commonwealth that she creates because she's the head of state of so many countries ultimately is not a beneficial community for its members that they would be better off pursuing other more organic connections based on current interest rather than on a shared legacy of rule by the windsor family for these reasons we should abolish the monarchy.
Thank you.