Holocaust denial should not be banned.
We have three arguments for our side.
The first is about why we prefer challenge bad ideals rather than to hide them.
So let's think about what it looks like when you ban holocaust, denial, people don't change their minds just because this is now a legal and they don't stop teaching their children that the holocaust is a lie and things like that.
Instead what happens is that they learn to spread these horrible lies through private channels or ways that only people who think like them are going to be aware of, we would prefer a world where they publish these idea open late, so that there's more of a public debate, although there is no academic debate about whether the holocaust happened having academics or leaders in the community come out and speak against holocaust denial to point out, why it's absurd to be sure that new people are seeing the evidence ultimately is better than pretending the holocaust denial, doesn't exist.
We tell you that the best disinfectant of sunlight that when you're able to challenge people and force them to think critically about the idea of holocaust, denial, they'll realize that it's absurd and that the holocaust happened.
But if nobody's challenging the idea because the public sphere never hears anyone deny the holocaust, the people aren't going to realize that it's a real thing that happened they're going to just accept it face value.
The idea that the holocaust to some sort of, I don't really know a lot about this, but like ross child scheme, or whatever these people say and ultimately they're not going to be able to think critically about it.
So when our world to tell you that when you challenge these ideas, ultimately more people see that they're bad ideas, we think that debate funny enough actually does have educational benefits in terms of making people aware of the truth.
Our next argument is that we want to raise awareness of the holocaust, more generally it's easy for people to think everyone knows about the holocaust, but we're living in a time when the generation that went through this, this event is still alive.
We think that in thirty years when most of those people are passed away, holocaust awareness in general is going to be much lower and that in particular in countries that don't have large jewish populations, people are likely to focus less on the holocaust as world war, two receipts from recent memory into you know, the more distant past we think that it's important that we're able to challenge holocaust denial because this will increase the level of education about the holocaust more generally, the allies said in nineteen forty five that they would never forget.
But in order for that to be true, we have to keep educating young people about the holocaust fighting holocaust, denial provides an impetus to do so if you want children to do things like read books like night in schools, then you need to provide a reason for the public to support them doing that and fighting against holocaust, denial provides such an impetus of holocaust, denial goes underground, and most people never hear about it, then they're more likely to be okay, with removing the holocaust in school curricula and then it'll be forgotten like the armenian genocide, which we think is an unacceptable outcome.
Our third and final argument is that if you criminalize holocaust denial, it's harder to know who was a neo nazi, we tell you that right now you can identify people who are neo nazis or fascist or far right extremists based on their views on the holocaust.
If people are subscribing to magazines and newspapers to promote holocaust denial, then we can put them on the list potential members of the far right and things like that in this way, we can keep an eye on these people who pose a very real threat to democracy.
If you criminalize holocaust denial than these people go underground, and we lose sight of them they're able to pass as normal people, and they won't be held responsible for their horrible and heinous believes it'll be more difficult to crack down on them when they commit acts of terror, which by the way the far right commits more acts of terror in america than any other group islamic extremists to everyone, I think about they commit more acts of terror than anyone.
So we can better put together an idea of who these networks are who these people are and how they're spreading their horrible ideologies when we can track them through tracking holocaust, denial materials for these reasons, holocaust, denial should not be bound.
Thank you.