Sex education should be mandatory.
So in this debate, I think that we're talking about sex education, things like condom use teaching children about pregnancy how to avoid stds things like that I'm we're talking about this in state run schools.
So when we say mandatory we think that you need to be a class probably offered and held their gym class at a school so too big arguments for you but they're both about individual health.
So before we get into those two arguments, I just wanna say that we think that the state has a compelling interest in better individual health young people who are healthy are of going to be better workers in the future.
So the help to grow the economy if it's a developing country they're going to help your country to develop and on top of that since states ultimately pay for health care through things like national health.
In britain, we think that ultimately the state has a compelling interest to limit its expenses with regard to sexual health too big arguments that the first is about how this limits teen pregnancies, we think that most teen pregnancies are ultimately caused by ignorance, young people who don't understand how teen pregnancy actually works because they haven't been educated by their parents who might be conservative religious or even parents who don't fully understand sexual health on their own because they were educated in the past to think that many young women in particular are really grossly harmed because they have I'm protected sex.
They don't understand the risks of getting pregnant and then suddenly they have a child and their community wants them to drop out of school and raise that child so alternately their education gets put on hold their hard time, getting a good job and their future earnings are greatly decreased their ability to you know, go on to improve their own standard of living of their family standard of living is really decreased.
We see that this has huge impacts on these people especially teenage girls as a result of teenage pregnancy but it's relatively easy to educate people about how to avoid a pregnancy, you know, everything that you learned in school, especially condom use.
I think it's going to be important here, many young people even in very developed countries like the US, their parents, don't, teach them anything about condom use.
They might know that condoms exist, but perhaps they don't understand how to safely apply them, or when to use them.
Ultimately, teen pregnancies that are easily prevented through condom.
Use are not going to be prevented and that's to say nothing about forms of birth control that young woman might not even know exist a lot of them probably know about the pill in developed countries.
But in many developing countries to make a speech completely ignorant of the pills existence in in the US they may have a lot of stereo types for misinformation from the media about it that would limit their ability to get on something that could really help them to take control of their own life, not only with regards to pregnancy, but also with regard to regulating ministration.
Ultimately, we think that you really empower young women as a result of sexual education.
Our second argument then is about how this limits stds.
So everybody today is very concerned about the spread of HIV and aids, and if we look at the regions where HIV has spread the most rapidly gets in areas with very limited sexual education, if you look at it in the US been mostly in the gay community that people can really affected by this awful disease, the reason why that's probably true is that schools even up, unfortunately, until the present don't teach young people about ugh, homosexual sexual education, they only focus on heterosexual sexual education, which means that young people are going forward, but how to avoid getting an STD.
They don't know that they need to use condoms and things like that with homosexual intercourse.
So ultimately, we think that six HP mandatory to limit the spread of stds, not only, you know, obviously nobody wants an STD, but especially things like HIV, they can actually be life threatening in the future, and obviously that run up huge costs for the government in the forms of treatment.
So because we better stop, teen pregnancies and empower young women in because we limit the spread of HIV sex.
Education should be mandatory thank you.