We should not ban anonymous posting online, three arguments for our side.
The first is about freedom of speech.
We think that ultimately people in almost every country in the world are guaranteed the ability to speak their mind when you require someone to attach their name and face such as by linking.
So every comment that people make to a facebook profile or something similar to online comments you a bridge that freedom of speech we see that this is already acknowledged by courts around the world to the point that doc sing the practice of releasing someone's personal information without their permission is a crime or has been banned in many jurisdictions.
The reason why this limits people's freedom of speech so much is because by attaching your identity to something you open yourself up to attack this means that people will be a free to speak their mind more on this in just a minute and that people won't be able to access the kinds of open forum that characterize the internet right now, we think that one of the best things about the internet now is anonymous posting because it lets people have conversations that otherwise wouldn't exist.
So you silence a tremendous amount of speech by banning this anonymous posting and the other side might tell you that it isn't speech that we want that it's online bullying or people behaving anti socially, but I don't think they can make that claim categorically that this number has value for reasons I'll explain.
Now our second argument is about the benefits of anonymous posting to closeted or otherwise marginalized communities.
Imagine that you are gay, you know, ron how are you supposed to talk about your experiences with like minded individuals without anonymous posting we tell you that ultimately people whose ideas are not accepted by wider society or whose identities are not accepted by wider society benefit enormously from online posting.
I think one reason why there are so many more people with diverse identities out in the open today than there were thirty years ago is that people can find community online in a way that they can't in person don't feel comfortable talking about things like sexuality or gender identity, if they live in a conservative country or a conservative area of the country.
So they don't have a community to access anonymous posting lets people safely talk about identities that are marginalized or discriminated against.
It, lets people who otherwise flat community create community, and this eventually spills over into the real world when people realize that they are not alone that other people have the same experiences as them that what they are feeling is okay and not something that should be they should be ashamed of.
Then they are much more likely to be able to come forward and talk about those ideas in public.
We think that anonymous posting an anonymous communities ultimately be get real world communities, which think advocate for social change and acceptance.
Now the other team is going to say it's not just gay kids using the internet it's also people like the far right or political activist, you want harmful things or ISIS or groups like that, but those people already existed anyway, just like gay people already existed.
So you don't get rid of ISIS, you don't get rid of neo nazis by banning anonymous posting, and for reasons all to explain in just a minute you don't even limit their activity by banning this kind of act or posting so we think that ultimately the benefits that accrue to marginalized groups greatly outweigh the harms caused by ISIS posting on twitter.
Occasionally our final argument is that these laws would be unenforceable if they were introduced there is no way that any one country can implement an end to anonymous posting even china with their attempts to cut off their internet from the rest of the world have been unable to stop people from using IP ends for other ways of circumventing the great firewall of china as they call it.
The nature of the internet is that no one country can regulate it.
So ultimately, as long as people could set up an anonymous server in to fall, do or some other tiny country, you won't be able to enforce the laws which makes your government look weak and foolish and ultimately reduces the respect that people have for it.
We tell you that the kinds of extremist you might want to stop from talking online are still able to do so therefore so there's, no successful affected this policy for all these reasons we should not ban anonymous posting.
Thank you.