We should introduce covenant marriage.
So covenant marriage is a legal category of marriage which is available in three states in america.
Basically it requires that the of people who are engaged obtain some sort of pre marital counseling and that as a result of this after they get married, it will be more difficult for them to seek divorce.
For instance, they might be required to live apart for a certain amount of time or otherwise face higher legal barriers to divorce than other people would but I'd like to point out the divorce is not impossible after receiving a covenant marriage only relatively difficult, very few people have taken advantage of this in america, even though it's been around for a couple of decades.
So now that we have some ground work for the debate I'd like to advance a couple of arguments for why we should introduce come in that marriage first, we think that people deserve to have as many options as possible about how they want to define their marriage and their relationship to the state.
There are two parts of any marriage.
First of all you have the relationship between two individuals obviously people should have the maximum amount of freedom possible when creating a relationship with another person, we think that people have a right to self actualize that this is implicit a loss of many countries to give people the ability to speak to live to do what they want.
And that ultimately because of this, we should extend to a lot of freedom to people in terms of stubble xing relationships with others.
Marriage is also a legal contract.
So this also involves one's relationship with the state.
We think that again, people should have the maximum amount of freedom to define their relationship with the state.
If existing forms of marriage don't offer what you want to receive from your relationship with the state of which you are a citizen, then we think that whatever reasonable the government should try to accommodate you, for instance, by introducing things like civil partnerships for gay people, we think that covenant marriage is still a similar role for certain religious communities who want to have more barriers in place to divorce because they think it's unethical ultimately there's very little harm to offering people the ability to have a covenant marriage, no one's being forced to take it after all if people want to get a traditional marriage, they still can and we've seen in the US states that have adopted it that many people do.
But on top of that divorce is also not impossible in these covenant marriages so it's, not like it's, fundamentally a different type of relationship with the state than any other type of marriage it's just one of which is more difficult to nullify the contract with this in mind.
We think that there are very few drawbacks to introducing this policy.
It clearly has a benefit to some group of people even if most people won't take advantage of it and it doesn't actually harm anyone and everyone who participates is free, the consenting into it, and ultimately the contract is consistent with other principals with that in mind, I think it's clear that we should introduce covenant marriage.
But aside from that we tell you that it's very likely that people are doing something similar to this, whether or not the state condones it at that point, we think it's better to regulate the practice rather than just ignore it.
What do I mean by this religious communities already put barriers in place for their members to get divorced, they might require that people meet with a priest or a counselor before pursuing a divorce for instance, from members of these communities, even though there is no civil or secular law, preventing them from getting a divorce, these religious regulations may as well have the force of law we can see this is true because people hold very deep and serious religious beliefs which tell them the divorce might be unethical or that they need to respect the words of a religious elder.
So with that in mind, it's likely that people are already facing barriers to divorce, we think that by introducing this to the legal sphere, you can do things like limit the potential for abuse, for instance, facilitate people getting a divorce if there's been spousal abuse in an instance, when the religious community might not be as supportive.
So with these ideas in mind, we should introduce covenant marriage.
Thank you.