We should lower the age of consent.
So by this, we mean that in jurisdictions where it's not already the case, we think that the age of consent should be sixteen years old for men and women and that there should be romeo and juliet laws.
So these are laws which basically say that if two people are under the age of consent, then it's legal for them to have sex with one another even if it wouldn't be legal for them to have sex with an adult.
And basically these laws are designed to prevent, you know, teenagers who are in a relationship from accidentally ending up on the sex offender registry for something that was completely consensual and probably shouldn't be legal.
So with that in mind for going to present two arguments for why we think these would be good policies, the first is basically that kids will be kids.
We think that ultimately, no one is being harmed.
If two people who are not adults yet choose to engage in consensual sexual activity, we think that in many jurisdictions right now, the punishments are extremely harsh in many american states.
People can end up on sex.
Offenders list were for the rest of their life is going to be difficult for them to get employed.
They won't be able to join the military.
They won't be able to access some sorts of education, they're gonna have to tell their neighbors at their sex offender until the day that they die.
And this is obviously a system that was designed to go after perverts and people who are doing for the awful things not sixteen year, olds who popped up after prom one night.
So we think that the law is actually serving the purpose it was intended to create.
We think that it's really important that we don't let the letter of the law get in the way of protecting and helping people.
So obviously we want to protect minors from being taken advantage of by adults, but we also want to recognize that people who are sixteen or probably able to consent to being in a relationship and having sexual intercourse with one another and doing that in a responsible way, particularly if we offer things like sex education in schools.
So we think that at that point the best way that the law can help these people is to make it so that there is this romeo and juliet laws so that people can engage in sex with their peers while still protecting them if they're taken advantage of by someone older and also by recognizing that sixteen year olds are probably able to make meaningful consent which leads placed nicely into my second point, which is about legal consistency.
So in many american states people are able to get married at age sixteen, you can join the military with your parents consent at age sixteen, you can drive a car at age sixteen me, think that all of these are probably bigger decisions than choosing to have sex with that point.
We think that the law should be consistent, basically if people are being given a high amount of authority to make decisions about their own lives, we think that those decisions should be free for them to make across the board I don't see why someone who is motion early and physically mature enough to drive a car or serving the nation's military should also be allowed to engage in a consensual sexual relationship.
It just seems that if the government is saying that that person's judgment is good enough for one, it should clearly be good enough for the other we think that the possibility for a third party harms or great personal risk from people choosing to have consensual sex is much lower honestly than driving much was getting married or serving in the military.
So we think that at that point that the government should be consistent and lower the age of consent to sixteen across the board and the other team might say well it's only in america, the people can do these things when they're so young, but we still think that it's clear that sixteen year olds in different countries around the world probably have similar levels of emotional maturity.
What might be the case is that there's not enough sexual education in some parts of the world for young people to fully understand things like stds or the risk of pregnancy and how to use contraception.
But we think that in that case to be better to facilitate access to that information and access to contraception rather than just to ban any sort of sexual activity because we don't think that's ever going to be effective there's, no way to stop young people from having sex in the law should take that into account in even if it might be preferable for some people's, you know, moral or religious beliefs that young people didn't have sex at the point where they will the law should be pragmatic and acknowledge that and try to protect young people from unforeseen legal consequences like getting up on a sex offender registry and to provide information and contraceptives and things like that so that they can be safe.
So for these reasons we would lower the age of consent.