Abstinence only sex education should be mandatory.
So basically, by this, we mean education for young people in secondary school that would teach them to wait until they're married before having sex of this is already common in certain parts of the united states, but we think that it should be required everywhere in the poor countries.
So a few reasons why we think they should be implemented.
The first is that we think that abstinence only education has the power to prevent teenage pregnancies in many instances.
The reason why is that if you implement a more comprehensive type of sex at that teaches young people about birth control and other forms of safe sex practice is that information will go in one ear and out the other young people will hear that it's okay to have sex and not actually bother to learn how to put on a condom safely or not actually bother to take their birth control in a responsible way.
And that ultimately what you've done is sexually empower people without actually giving them the information to be responsibly, sexually empowered.
This is likely to lead to many teen pregnancies and we've seen that in some school districts in america, I don't claim all, but in some comprehensive sex education has coincided with the rise in sexual activity, given the tremendous harms, particularly to a young girls if they have children while they're still in high school, many of them don't finish high school they're, much less likely to go to college.
Their lives are effectively changed drastically for the negative if they do get pregnant.
So we think that if there is a risk that comprehensive sex education does encourage people to have sex without actually being responsible them, we should defer to having abstinence only sex education.
Our second argument is that we should respect the democratic will in countries so in the united states in particular, a large part of people actually support having abstinence only sex education.
So we think that if the public wants to have abstinence only sex education then it's not the government's place to decide that that's right or wrong for them, we think it's probably the case that government shouldn't dictate that one way of life is better than any other way of life instead, they should defer to what individual people want to do, but obviously some stance is necessary in terms of what we teach in public schools.
At that point, we think we should defer to what the majority of people think rather than having a minority of well, educated elites make a decision about what's actually best for them because these countries rely on democratic will for their legitimacy.
We think it's legitimate to make decisions that are unpopular with the public on social matters.
Our third and final argument is that in a world where comprehensive sex ed and abstinence only sex that were both followed, we think that it would be a better world with abstinence only sex education.
So we recognize first of all that neither program is going to be completely successful that some young people will have sex, even if we have abstinence only education on.
But we think that ultimately, if you can imagine a world where everyone was having safe sex in high school in a world where no one was having sex in high school, you would still have fewer teen pregnancies in the absence only world at the point where that's our biggest concern to prevent people from ruining their lives by having an unplanned teen pregnancy, we should defer to abstinence only because when it is applied effectively, it would mean no one had the potential to get pregnant, where is of a portion a small portion, admittedly of people having the safe sex would actually get pregnant, whether that be from, you know, misuse of things like condoms and birth control.
So ultimately, we think that because you would have a better world if this were applied perfectly that it is a preferable policy to take that we should try to do the best job possible with the best policy rather than implementing another policy that when both are applied in perfectly might sometimes be better.
So for all these reasons we should have abstinence only sex education in secondary schools.
Thank you.