We should not to disband.
She on so AC on is the association of southeast asian states as the last speaker pointed out to you it's made up of the group of states in southeast asia who were working together towards common goals of development.
Three reasons why we should not to spend it first anti colonialism recognize that for developing countries like the ones in AC on like malaysia like indonesia, they have a few alternatives for who they can turn to its trade partners.
You have major international trading countries like the states like china like you countries which historically have treated these countries in a very colonialist way most of the countries in AC on except for thailand for once colonized by european countries or the united states.
And if you look back before that, they had a semi colonial relationship with china in many instances, such the relationship between vietnam and china.
So we see that there's a history of abuse and mistreatment between these larger countries around the world, a more powerful countries and the AC on countries.
We think that by working together, the AC on countries can ensure that they are a large enough economic block to prevent these major international powers to a strictly come in and push them around from dominating the region in other words, ishi on makes all of these countries that together are strong and able to resist imperialist aggression or trade policy and would all individually not be that powerful.
It allows them to work together towards a common goal of independence, and it reassures the independence of every member state from international oppression and dependence on one country for trade.
Our second argument is about why we think that fundamentally ishan increases development and that's the highest good in this round.
So first weiss development, the most important good, if you think about the quality of life in AC on countries, obviously it varies people in malaysia, for instance, have like a middle income quality of life people in vietnam are much poorer, but we think it overall everyone in all of these countries could still benefit from more development.
We think that there is a moral imperative for states to seek out development for their citizens.
Why is this so when we say a moral imperative we need that states always have an obligation to seek this out.
We think that because any person would always choose to live in the most developed country possible so that they have the highest quality of life does with the ability to do so those who reap the benefits of develop life because their elites should try to provide it to everyone else to sort of do want to others as you would have them do unto you type of thinking we see that development is more likely with AC on one because countries have more access to trade partners and trade goods.
So it's more likely that they're able to specialize and develop industries that can then take advantage of other markets within easy on and two because of the access to economic development expertise recognize that many countries in AC on different levels of development, malaysia is pretty far along some other countries are not as far along.
So we tell you that people in AC on countries can study in other countries and learn about development industry and how other countries have been successful in the past and use this in order to help their own home country.
So at the end of the day we help the people who are worse off in the world, some of them, some of these very poor people who live in these young countries because we better access development.
So we shouldn't disband AC on our last argument is about peace in the region recognize that there are many potential sources of conflict within the southeast asia region.
Some countries are more closely aligned with china, so they see an advantage in china becoming more hegemonic.
Some countries are more aligned with the united states.
Some countries are communists.
Some countries are capitalist it's been conflict in the past over east timor, and there are other ethnic tensions, boiling beneath the surface in many southeast asian countries.
But one of the surest ways to prevent international conflict is to tie everyone's interest together through trade.
If everyone stands to get richer through peace and pour through conflict that it's much less likely that a war will break out in the region.
So for that reason, we think a sean as a tremendous tool for peace in southeast asia in the future.
So because it's an anti colonial institution because it promotes development and because it will be to peace in the region, we should not to spend a xi'an.
Thank you.