We should further exploit hydroelectric dams, self, hydro, electric electric dams are just ordinary dams to produce electricity by further exploit.
We think that countries around the world should seek to build hydroelectric dams preferentially relative to traditional sources of energy and at a greater rate than they're doing in the status quo.
So three, big arguments for you.
The first is about why we need to transition to renewable energy.
So the first question there would be is hydroelectric power renewable, but we see that rivers will continue to run whether or not we damn dumb.
So it seems very likely that this is a sustainable form of energy in the long term and it's one that doesn't involve any sort of pollution.
It is true that hydroelectric dams may disrupt the flow of water.
It may be damaging ceda migratory fish, but we see that there are ways to work around this.
We might disable hydroelectric power plant during a migration by animals, or we might come up with a way for fish to by pass it, but there is a reasonable steps that sam and can jump up the use of some hydroelectric dams up in alaska.
For instance, scientists are clever I'm, sure that they'll be able to come up with a work around here.
We think that it's essential that we transitioned to green energy to reduce our carbon emissions.
The population is only growing and particularly as regions like china and india developed, and these people have a higher quality of life they're going to demand more access to energy.
We need to ensure that that energy is provided in the cleanest way possible, which means building things like hydroelectric dams, the other great advantage of hydroelectric dams is that you can build them on almost any river in the world, a wind power only works for you have strong wind currents that might be good in massachusetts, but not so good in florida and solar power, of course, realize are getting lots of sun, which means that as you move further north it's less and less useful hydroelectric power can be used almost anywhere in the world.
So we think it is the type of green energy that we ought most invest, our efforts into our second argument is about energy independence, many countries around the world rely on their neighbors for electricity production is a benign example.
Germany recently closed down lots of nuclear power plants after the fukushima disaster in japan, and now they buy electricity from france where it's produced by nuclear power plants.
I thought it was a bit funny, but what's important here is that countries can improve on their energy independence through further exploitation of hydroelectric dams, a country like egypt, for instance, that's built massive dam projects in the past has reduced their dependence on the international community for energy.
We think that by building high reluctant dams you there for strength in your own economy because you avoid imports and you also create skilled jobs in the form of the engineers who would work at these plants, and in addition you create work in terms of constructing these hydroelectric dams, it's central, we think that it would be a stimulus for the economy.
And our last argument is that we think that it is a wasted opportunity would reverse flow on downed recognize that the energy, the river contains when it flows to the sea is being spent one way or the other.
If you build a hydroelectric dam than that energy can go to powering hospitals and schools and houses, and if you don't then that energy goes to pushing some sand around at the bottom of an estuary, we think that it's important that we don't waste energy itself, finite resource, however much, but that there may be in nature when they are potential to spend energy in the future is going to really grow exponentially.
It seems it is certainly grown exponentially since the beginning of the nineteenth century.
We think that we need to take every effort now to harness as much of the earth's energy as possible.
So that future people may have a higher quality of life and a better standard of living, and that ultimately it would be a wasted opportunity, not to further exploit these hydroelectric dams, so because it's good from of green energy because it promotes energy independence, and because not to do so would be a wasted opportunity.
We should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
Thank you.