This house would not subsidize bio fuels.
So in this debate for arguing that the american government should not subsidize bio fuels, we have four points in this debate.
First, we think that the subsidy of bio fuels undermines better alternative sources of energy.
Governments are uniquely poorly suited to pick winners and losers in industry.
We think philosophically, this is important to keep in mind that governments are always going to be made up of individuals who have their own interests at heart.
So people who stand to make money on this are likely to support it and any implementation of this policy is likely to be done in such a way that individual congressmen make money.
But aside from that, we tell you that it's very unlikely that government will correctly identify the best technologies to invest in when you introduce all of these subsidies, everyone wants to invest their research into getting those subsidies.
This means that people are going to turn away from other technologies that might be more effective like better battery technology that actually reducing our dependence on bio fuels.
And this also creates a lock in effect were once a lot of people use bio fuels it's very difficult to transition to other sources of energy instead, so ultimately might be left with the laughs, efficient form of alternative energy.
Then if we wait and let the market decide what we should adopt our second argument is that government money is fungible what we mean by this is that giving money to corporations is not preferable to giving money to the american people recognize that this is basically corporate welfare, you say, if you do the kind of production that we want we will subsidize you will give you some money back but that's money that isn't going to other programs like snap or wake which are important american social welfare programs.
We think that ultimately even if you want to keep this money focused on climate change, things like providing for people who are displaced by climate change or cleaning up the damage of coal power plants, et cetera would all be better uses of this money that have more immediate tangible impacts for people on the ground thing, giving handouts to large corporations that make cars with bio fuel.
Our third argument is that this won't actually do anything to change the incentives of large oil companies BP exxon, whatever large oil companies, the other side of things are going to be harmed by this policy to reduce oil production actually won't change international growth is the driver of increasing oil consumption as people in places like india and china have a higher standard of living they're going to want cars they're going to want things that rely on oil, the other teammates say, oh, but they'll adopt bio fuels as well.
Guess what india is already leading user of alternative fuels like liquid natural gas, but that doesn't mean that the oil demand isn't also increasing because of development.
So what that means is that exxon and be people keep drilling the same amount of oil, no matter what and there's actually no solvency here to reduce carbon emissions because the oil is coming out of the ground, either way our last point in this debate is about what we just heard from rachel about international instability.
So rachel tells us that alternately it's good if we move to biofuels because it means that we're less dependent on middle eastern dictators, but I want to push back on this idea that saddam hussein or muammar qaddafi or whatever boogie man, you prefer controls international oil on it it's true that europe imports lots of oil, but most of it comes from russia rather than the middle east, and in the united states, essentially all of our oil comes from latin america or domestic production or canada.
So what that means is the people you actually put pressure on our new particular of the russians in general we saw that in the past the invasion of crimea was partly driven because putin needed to shore up his position as a leader because oil prices had fallen so the economy wasn't doing well.
So we think that ultimately strong men like or like middle eastern shakes who rely on oil are forced to be more aggressive when you undermine the oil revenue and that this will be to international instability, which is a tremendous harm of this policy.
So were these four reasons we would not subsidized biofuels.
Thank you.