We'll cannot have it both ways he has to choose, are these laws rarely enforced, and thus do not matter ordered to we have to live in a dictatorship in which every sixteen year old quest sex is dragged into court.
We think that it is somewhere in between we don't think that anyone is getting deprived of their sexual liberation will rightly points out that the majority of the time.
These laws aren't enforced it's really rare that the eighteen year old is sued by the sixteen year old because they're both in the same high school class.
Rather, we think that we need these laws in place for those edge cases for when people need to press charges or when someone is being truly abused, these systems are checks in a world where we hope we never have to use them more than this.
We don't think that we have to do this in the dumb way up is open to adjustments in laws, not persecuting people who are within two years of each other or other similar kinds of adjustments.
The only thing that works truly defending is a strict age of consent at eighteen year, olds eighteen years old to me, there is a clash.
The first on the promotion of centralization of youth by these kinds of laws.
When you remove legality, you create a market already one of the largest porn searches are teen and amateur now you can have actual teams on that screen recognize the only thing stopping industries, such as porn or other, like sexually objectifying TV shows from using very young children is that it's illegal to do.
So, we think that the point that you remove that boundary you're going to have these people recently sexualized and younger and younger people because this is already the trend that we're moving toward sure I give you one more extreme example.
But we also think that there's going to be a general increase in more suggestive media with you as you see less and less stigmatization of young sex.
This means more and more immersion in sex before you are old enough to even conceptualize it, what it might be government is right, you can't remove all the influences, but you can definitely not out to that fire by removing the age of consent society has gone far enough with sexual icing young women.
We tell you no more or second area of clash hostage with the protection of minors, because even if they might understand the physical mechanism of socks, we don't think they usually understand the intimate emotional details will is right.
There is a power dispels between ages, but that isn't created by the age of consent, rather that existed before hand.
And the age of consent is created to protect against it older men and women will always be more experience and be able to leverage emotional power against the younger people there sleeping with combine this oftentimes with financial power.
And you end up in the kind of power to stalin's relationships that we're talking about it's just true that there is something wrong with the twenty eight year old who's dating sixteen year old, and that sixteen year old probably needs to be protected from them.
We think that you need to have the legal catch hold for when there is a problem.
And when someone does want to press charges because the alternative is a world in which regardless of how much abuse you're going through, you cannot prove it because this is just part of being in a relationship we need to offer special protections specifically to minors because they are much more likely to be exploited, not only do they often not know what a healthy relationship looks like, but they are often taught by the media that the way in which they can love or acceptance is by offering themselves up sexually we think that at some point these people need to be protected from themselves and from the media they consume their entire lives as such the age of consent is fine.
The only thing that needs changing its peoples mindsets and how we view it for these reasons, proud to oppose.