So we think it's probably fine when governments are unwilling to take and hard core criminals club actively like committed crimes like homicide or actively violent crimes.
But we think the debate we're having is whether you should limit simon eyes asylum against those who have been discriminated against in their home countries.
And those who like face imminent threats like, obviously, we don't care if you've stolen something from a store or if you have a misdemeanor it's more about whether or not you need to be safer need to get away from your current situation, two main areas of clash, the first on the obligations of western liberal democracy democracies, although the state as an institution it's also made up of individual people that have obligations to each other one of the obligations is to assist others when it comes out little to no cost to yourself.
This is because the circumstances that provide one person with a better life than other are random, but also because in capital systems, those who profit often do so by oppressing others.
So the people escaping political subjugation in china are often the same people.
The people in the US are profiting off of one.
We outsource our corporation, giant shoot to china and encouraged exploitative government.
We also think that western liberal democracies are more specifically obligated to developing countries and their citizens because they often are partially responsible for their circumstances like america really created ISIS when they shipped off weapons to like rebel groups in iran and the britons litter in the brits, literally destroyed african independence by redrawing the borders and just kind of colonizing all over the place, same with india when streets because the problems of others, we think they have an obligation to assist with the consequences given the fake because it them we think that taking in those affected by their actions is an effective way to do so and like possibly one of the best ways in so far as you are saving lives without like with minimum expenditure on yourself like we think the really important thing in this round is that states aren't actually harmed by taking in more immigrants like sure their arguments about why it might be difficult for your welfare system.
But all of these things even out over time like we had many studies that have shown that immigrants when integrated actually become very productive members of society and give birth to children that become very productive members of society, our secondary of clash, hostage with the arbitrary nature of citizenship, because even if you think that obligations occur first year citizens we don't think that applies if the way by which people can be citizens is arbitrary, and there is no like fixed standard by which we measure.
So both the standard that we currently use are don't really make sense right because either the standard is that you were born in that state or the standards that you're related by blood to someone else.
Neither of these things are something that like you as a fetus or q as an unborn child can actually control you're born within borders, you didn't decide that in many cases of like countries or continents such as africa or asia were drawn by other imperial states, you have limited mobility it's like very difficult to just choose to leave an uncomfortable situation because you are often blocked by your own government and by your own means.
So if I don't have enough money, I cannot escape, but also because of immigrants immigration regulations, such as what we're talking about right now, you're often also born into a class that you can't get out of because of societal circumstances.
So at the point that literally none of these things are things that I can opt in to our like things that I can't even comprehend it's just something that I am pleased into one I am born.
We don't think that there is actually meaningful fair standard by which we describe citizens and therefore it's impossible for states to have applegate obligations to them.
First, this honestly makes the government's policy quite discriminatory insofar as it says based on this arbitrary factor that you were born within the strong winds, then you get to have then you get to have access to like better goods and resources where is everyone who is arbitrarily outside of those lines, while screw you, we think that obligation exists not to citizens but to any human equally unless you ought not limit amnesty for these reasons, proud to oppose.