Three areas of clash as to why racial profiling ought not be allowed in airports.
First, it is no longer relevant.
There was a time when due to regional region already of certain groups of people, racial profile was incredibly effective, because in the end, the majority of isis were iranians, but this has passed a soon as racial profiling became unknown tactic.
This is because terrorist organizations aren't stupid, they know that a brown man or religiously dressed women are more likely to be stopped so instead it they recruit white kids to do their dirty work.
What this means is that, instead of actually finding terrorists or likely criminals all that racial profiling accomplishes is creating a distraction from the real culprit and making it less likely that you're actually going to find them because while you're a bit busy patting down the guy with the accent, the person who actually has the dangerous item is much more likely to slip by unnoticed it all there's also no longer relevant because airport security has gotten so tight that it's incredibly unlikely that anything will get smuggled in in the first place at the point that you get stopped for aerosol cans that are actually just your deodorant and metal detectors exist that will scan your whole body seamlessly we're, not sure how exactly someone is going to get by with a weapon in the first place.
Our second area of cross trusted with whites writes about violative in the united states.
You are innocent until proven guilty fire, constitutional rights.
When you use racial profiling, you presume someone's guilt based on their race, therefore not allowing them innocence until there's proof.
This is rice violative since now that person is treated like a criminal and stripped of their rights to their tony or to their property, regardless of whether they actually committed the crime or not in fact, they most likely didn't in the majority of these kinds of situations at the point that we still exist in the united states.
We don't think that the government just gets to suspend these rights for efficiency six, if that was the case, then you have a special clause in the constitution that said you can become authoritarian when you feel like it, but we have these kinds of laws in place specifically to protect from authoritarian regimes because sure right now we're afraid of muslims in ISIS, but these kinds of things can become more and more expensive.
If the justification can be security in the end, anyone can become a security threat and the things that you can do in order to protect the security of a certain nation can also become an infinite.
We think this kind of slippery slope is incredibly real, and we see this in other countries that say they host democratic elections, but then slowly take away rights to internet as we see currently in russia because of security issues and being afraid of hackers and viruses.
Meanwhile, what they're actually doing is suspending protesters and anyone who doesn't agree with the current government, a third area of class hostage with why this is uniquely traumatizing and why people ought not be forced to go through it if you are innocent, getting randomly searched based on your race can be incredibly traumatizing given that not only is this often like a physically obnoxious system in which were being patted down and touched by strangers, but it's also humiliating oftentimes you're in front of people, you know, and you don't want them to see you in that situation and not only this, but you're also often for of strangers who you definitely don't want to see when the situation it also teaches children to be afraid book like to teach your children who are not of that race to be more afraid of that race.
And so raises the general fear in society, and it also chip teaches children of that race to hate themselves a little bit more given that they are much more the given that they're being stereotyped and labeled as terrorists, and it like basically leads to them not feeling safe within this nation for these reasons pro to oppose.