Three main arguments as to why we should not necessarily adopt such a tearing at some first let's talk about cultural validity.
So first it's, unclear why we have to respect animal rights infinitely there've, been multiple differences, pointed out by philosophers that necessarily means that even if animals qualify for some rights, they definitely don't qualify to all of the rights that human being might have first, they oftentimes don't carry the same level of sentence, and those that do we do not eat on.
But second, animals, don't really have a conception of the few future versus the past and of their existence in that timeline.
Rather, they have a sense of their current cell phone of current existence and of current biological drives.
But they can't actually imagine themselves in the future.
And they can't contextualize themselves there, which means when you kill an animal it's, not the same as killing a human you're, not removing that animals like infinitely long life before their eyes, because they couldn't conceptualize that life in the first place.
What this means is that there isn't a good reason, not to kill an animal you're, not taking anything away from it, and as long as you're doing so in a humane manner, there isn't actually an ethical dilemma.
So yeah, right now we have a problem with backstreet farming I'll tell you later why this problem exists on both sides of the house.
We think this is something that we can work towards fixing on and something that we can like adjust to over time like sustainable and ethical farming.
At that point, we think that people's cultures and their happiness becomes infinitely more important business animals life if this is part of your identity, I can be really impact how you relate to your culture and your self to lose because recognize that for a lot of people growing up eating meat as part of cultural celebrations as part of celebration of yourself or maybe it's just the meal that your mother made every night when you guys can really afford anything else.
All of these are valid modes of self, expression and self identity, and we think that when you look create a world in which becomes preferable to adopt richard herring ism, you make it preferable to stop believing in these two to stop on adopting to yourself.
So we think that like people should be able to have their preferences and should be able to email me if they so desire are secondary of clash hostage with ease of access and expenses because even though it might be reasonable for someone to go vegetarian, it is still incredibly difficult to make that lifestyle shift when you grow up with that one specific diet where you know that you'll be healthy eating it, and suddenly you have to switch to something completely different.
We think that a lot of the times you actually run into a lot of problems with being healthy and maintaining a healthy lifestyle once you switch because your body is very on used to the way the word out and sometimes your someone used to it, but you don't necessarily know how to consume the same number of necessary nutrients the same way.
So we think that meat is something that most people understand how to cook it has the same health composition that they've been living with their whole life, so they can live off of diets that have meat in them without becoming unhealthy and they also exist on in like most supermarkets, regardless of what demographic you're living in and dumb it's like, very convenient for you to make people know how to cook it and it's usually pretty cheap and honestly, it's usually cheaper than getting enough such doubles that will keep you full in the same way.
And so we prefer that people be able to have this ease of access our third area of clawshots to do with the possibility of sustainability because factory farming is going to exist on both sides of the house.
The question is just are we factory farming animals or we doing the same thing with vegetables, put in both worlds, you're going to have real people and real animals were being harmed in the process because you don't actually change the market incentives in fact, you're just saying hey, look now, we're gonna buy crop load of this other product you better switch to focusing on mass producing that.
So basically what their side is creating is a world in which we can jump from trying to trend without actually solving the underlying issue.
It means that we only changed the facade without discussing a more ethical ways of farming or cystine ability or hydroponics.
And so we think that our side of the house is actually going to provide you a world in which we can face the actual problem for these reasons pro to oppose.