Don't ban fraternities, three main areas of clash.
First, I want to talk about how a lot of the problems that will attributed to fraternities aren't actually endemic to them and will continue even worse.
If you ban fraternities recognize that the reasons that all of these issues are present at far parties is because properties have become the dominant party supplier the only other get togethers tend to be more personal.
Invite only kind of situations where necessarily the fact that you have less strangers unless people willing to report at cetera means there's going to be less sexual assault unless binge drinking, etcetera, these issues, however, sexual assaults over drinking, all of that are endemic to party culture, not necessarily frats as long as students demand parties, all they do is just place the same harms onto smaller distance, attritional as parties only solution for these kinds of situations is basically what colleges have already been employing, which are heavy education campaigns, but advocate for consent bystander, treating like all of these things that actually changed the mindsets of individual people rather than just saying look because we've bendis, one institution, everything was solved when the problem on their side of the house is that they're creating a false sense of solvency in which people think the issue is gone because frats are now banned in reality.
It remains just as there and just as permanent as ever.
We think, currently when you have an institution, you can watch it regularly and target them much easier.
You can warn people specifically about frat parties and how you can take care of yourself there you can offer them perks for calling ubers and specify trainings that are targeted towards them.
We prefer a centralized system because it's reliable and easy to regulate in so far schools are just infinitely like going to be watching frauds, a lot closer than other people.
We think they're going to be more capable of decreasing the harmful effects.
Then if all of those same parties just became like, just became in different locations with different groups of individuals that they're not used to observing per second area of cautious hope becomes more pernicious.
Yes, it's bound up front, her exclusionary in providing social networking, only to those who can afford it, but rich people will always find a way to separate themselves through other means.
Organize things like the finals club at harvard are literally just response to the fact that frosts and things like that were told to desegregate and be more inclusive.
And they were like hard.
Guess what we're going to create finals clubs are institutionalized with all of your best donors so that we can get away with this.
We know the situations are even worse because now they don't need university support to exist they're, essentially divested themselves from university infrastructure rely on massive donors to the university doesn't want to piss off either, and it means that you can actually have any sort of meaningful change in terms of social norms are requiring better treatment requiring bystander training.
We prefer frats because they're under over certain university oversight.
There is some level of influence there.
You can actually for some rules like party logging and making sure you know where all the parties are things like that.
Our third area of clash is just why fraternities can be incredibly helpful.
And those people are able to choose them recognize that college is incredibly difficult, especially when you are first transitioning, your freshman year, frats providing meaningful community that help people through hard times and right there's, no objective way in which we a just war go through this difficult time in our life, like there's, no one way to go to college and make it rather every individual finds their own community and group of people.
Maybe they don't find anyone at all that helps them through an incredibly difficult transitory period.
Some people you school clubs, others use fronts, but both of these are equally valid option, something to provide you with a supportive community in times of need winning that everyone deserves that.
And we don't think that it's the job of universities to regulate it in so far as it takes those options away from students.
We also just think that like having somewhere where like maybe there is an institutional history of like your parents knew them there's more oversight is really helpful for individuals were away from home for the first time for a long period of time on and also like in so far as we have to get their social networking somewhere were unsure why any of these terms are unique reasons, proud to oppose.