One will argues against cosmetic surgery.
What he doesn't seem to understand is that societal standards are going to exist on both sides of the house and will get met either way if I'm not spending that money on changing my waist cosmetically, I am wearing a binder, or a course that it is a lot more physically damaging to me oftentimes cost just as much and I'm still meeting the same beauty stereo types.
Women who have too much money for their own good and hate their bodies are going to find a way to satisfy those standards.
Regardless what this round is about is whether or not they ought be able to choose the method by which they do so and whether paternalism is justified, we tell you that we prefer a safer way more than that.
It is still a woman's right to model herself in the male gaze, even if it is something that is bad for society writ large, we think this is about the individual woman's choice and what empowers her not about societal reaction, two main areas of clash, the first on the standards of a ban it is generally accepted that a democratic government can ban something if there is either a large personal harm that requires paternalism, or if large third party harm that allows you to personalize an individual's choices will says but society in the reinforcement of stereo types.
The problem with this is that, as we told you, these beauty standards are already there at most.
There is the marginal reinforcement.
When the top one percent meets them with cosmetic surgery, we think the vast majority of people are still not doing it in order to look the way the men want, or that like if only because they simply do not have the money to do so a personal level will did not address any problems and will tell you that this is because there aren't any complications are rare, but the steam boost that women who make these decisions gap is very real it's, not harm, but rather a benefit to take a feature that you have just like two entire life and turn it into something that is pleasurable.
And that empowers you, but then will says it's such a useless expenditure.
All we see to this is that you ought allow an individual to decide what is a useless expenditure.
This is honestly, very dumb argument given that even in the example of a handbag, most of that money still goes to a corporation.
Moreover, who cares we recognize that money is the property of an individual and do not paternal eyes the way in which it is spent because the standards for one of the useful expenditure versus not differs depending on who is looking at the expenditure for some paying for a pact is a useless expenditure given that that pat is not you tile to them, but for others, it is a very good expenditure because they gain a lot from having that pat cosmetic surgery is no different are secondary of cost has to do with cosmetic surgery as a form of empowerment.
We think it is difficult to feel powerful if you're not feeling physically empowered, and so it is good to allow women and men to empower themselves in a way that is safe and legal and within their own like power right like, we think that it is good that if they hit a future for the majority of their lives, they can do something that will fix it and then not hate hate themselves as much or feel more calm, confident in the bedroom.
We think that even if it is like marginally problematic that women get get on, get like adjustments to their labia because they're told that long libya's are bad, we think it is still not positive that they then feel more confident in the bedroom and more confident with their own bodies so that they can actually be intimate with another person more than this will tell you it's not always beauty standard based sometimes it has to do with the way that someone feels their faces a symmetrical or in situations of trans individuals what they want to appear more like the gender with which they identify with you get the point.
The cosmetic surgery represents very real ways by which individuals can make themselves feel better and empower themselves to be more productive and happier individuals in the long term, you ought not bennett for these reasons, proud to oppose.