When tim says pretty things like listing all of the different despot's, he thinks the US should take action against.
He forgets that were operating in the real world, and that these kinds of ideas such as mass like regulation of different kinds of dictators require consistent backing and the promise of a positive and results because in the end we've seen what happens when intervention occurs and you don't stick it out till the end we tell you that power vacuum, such as that, which were created in iraq or more untenable than the dictators who existed previously and all such any active intervention should be one that is carefully planned plotted and known to be successful.
We just don't think this is something that the security council, the u n can actively provide or promise.
And this is why we think the media was very important because just liked him sometimes individual countries get carried away and think that they can stomach and shoot more than they actually can when this happens, we think that the five million members are good at him, pointing when these funds don't exist when the political motives don't exist and saying take a step back, maybe these call outs aren't necessary to mary's of clash the first on why we think the purpose of the security council and the u at large is about staying a treaty and discourse based group and allowing these nations to come together and have discourse.
We nothing in order to maintain a dogma of discourse.
You need to have an unwillingness to enter violent conflict, because otherwise you're no longer discussing the conflicts that you're entering into rather you are just saying this is a bad situation.
We can send forces in to fix it, but more than this, we think it is good to think thoroughly through these kinds of proposals because multiple be does mean that these proposals go back on the floor and re enter discussion.
And we think that the sixth version of a car given proposal is always going to be better than the first version.
And the only thing they're doing on their side of the house is making it easier for less thought out plans to go through more than this that we think that you increase politicking only you.
And when you take away power from those who see it as necessary to that, we think that all that happens is that none of these five national security nations are going to be willing to give up their effective veto and so are going to exercise it to the manipulation of countries.
We think that it's just much more likely that now they're going to go to swing votes or go to individual leaders of countries and say that if you want our support in other matters, if you want to smoke undermine you in other global trade agreements are global affairs, you are not going to vote.
Yes on this, we think this creates more tension also leads the pitting of countries one against the other at the point that the US can blame any country that to first china's opinion for not letting their proposal through those countries are more likely to get targeted meaning that this kind of tension is antithetical more so than anything else to the u n's purpose, our secondary of clash has to do with why these countries have earned their right to veto and will hurt if we take it away the impacts are much worse.
We think that even if it makes it harder to regulate these larger countries, it is true that these larger countries individually provide more money to the you and any of the smaller countries, what this means is that they are effectively barring their ability to choose where that money goes.
And if they do not believe that a conflict is worth it, then they ought not be obligated to send their money and their troops to that conflict.
But more than this, we think that the alternative on their side of the house is that these countries just leave because in the end, large super powers had very little to gain from the united nations may already have strong economies.
They don't need collaboration that much as much as other nations new collaboration with them what this means is that when they start feeling disrespected, they leave and the countries that are left don't get any kind of state aren't able to get anything done because they just don't have the same kind of funds and don't have the kind of organization for these reasons, proud to oppose.