The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce a flat tax.
What this means is that in the united states where we currently tout a progressive tax, the majority of the time we would instead institute, we would replace that talks with only a flat tax, which would take the same percentage of income from everyone regardless of how high their income it.
So someone who was earning a hundred thousand dollars a year would still pay more in taxes than someone earning one only forty thousand, but only because of the percentage not because the percentage goes up as you as you arm as you earn more, there is a clash.
First, on the principle of fairness in the situation, we think that at the end of the day wages are meant to evaluate the labor that you put in and different forms of labor are worth different amount, not even due to an objective metric on, but rather because of the way that society values that making was actually one of the most democratic systems that currently exists.
It basically says the because that we take all these criteria how much energy you put into something how much schooling you had to go through how much that schooling maybe cost.
And we say this is the metric by which we evaluate on how many how much your wages are a and we think this is like the market is a pretty is just like a pretty good job of this insofar as clearly people are still willing to go into any number of positions on regardless of their wages.
It just changes the barriers in between.
So we think that doctors make more than fry cooks because society of values, the effort that both jobs require on and how much of an energy commitment they art and decided the docking a doctor deserves more compensation given that we understand about on.
We think that how much each career makes on influences then how much work what those people choose to put into it.
So I think that everyone has access to the information that a doctor makes more than a fry cook.
And given this, they make an educated decision based on this knowledge in combination with their knowledge of how much education they might need, etcetera, etcetera and become either a doctor or a fry cook.
So given that you need to talk to so on given the end of that, whatever you earn is in exchange for your labor, it becomes the property of that individual who earned it taxes, regardless of what kind they are ari state of our form of state supported theft, but given that you need some tax for public good that everyone agrees is necessary like roads are something that everyone needs etcetera.
We think that is fundamentally unjust to steal more from some people on the basis of their income and they need to promote a hard line when it comes to state sponsored sponsored that's on us to what is justified and what is not so we think it's only fair if it's the same percentage from each person given it that way you're stealing the same percentage from each person, our secretary of clashes about encouraging innovation.
We think that getting more money as an incentive for people to exert themselves more than there necessarily comfortable asserting themselves in a progressive tax, remove the incentive because it reduces the margin of difference and economic growth.
It makes the trade off of time for money harder to justify if the money is marginal in terms of its increase, we need to, but we need people to have an incentive to work harder in order to achieve greater efficiency like at the end of the day, we need someone to serve as the manager or the boss or the director.
And if the extra hours that they spend in the professional arena arm does not justify the amount of money that they earn because the progress of talks takes off so much of their race, then we're just not going to help anyone who's willing to become those because everyone loves maximizing the time they spend at home relaxing, but we also in this is really important in terms of maximizing peoples of incentives to create and to innovate like physically winning.
The reason we have the majority of the great inventions in the world have to do with, because we had like respect pardons and worked, worked respect intellectual property on our third clashes just on white maximize efficiency.
We think that it gets rid of having to file for talks is no dividends, no IRS rules to comply with which just makes the entire tax process.
A lot easier for these reasons, proud to propose.