We should end cheerleading two minutes of clash.
First about the over sexualized nation of youth.
We think that it's true that true living as a sport is entirely based on the sexual isolation of eighth grade to twelfth grade girls.
We see this in terms of the revealing dance moves the skimpy costumes, and the fact they only exist in order to motivate male ball players on the field on the fact that it has always been majority, marketed towards women and only started to include bad when it became like a principled thing like I yes, let's have one or two men on the team who want to do it.
We think that what this does is it provides presents these girls as objects for mail consumption, and I was such a influences the way these people see them in the future, like if I'm a football player and I've been taught that these people are here to cheer me speak like me on and here for my entertainment and my pleasure and like my motivation, then why would this be something that I would recognize like individual people who are out treat with respect with dignity.
If I've been taught, they don't actually deserve either of those things we think that this influences if these people into the long term in so far as these become the click adults who also watch these kinds of things from the sidelines and see these individuals to be just as like sexualized and objectified for their use oz the you'd like wheels for younger, it indicates this also is a good generalizable thing to all women.
It says, like, look like women in general, are sexually gratified they're here to service you not something that young man already learned from a really young age from other stimuli, but some of the kids massively reinforced when they see cheerleaders out on the field.
This is especially problematic because it teaches young girls to see themselves in this way as well like what society tells you that you are something for a look on long enough, you tend to start believing it, especially when this comes from figures of authority or people who you respect, or if this is the way that like the majority of the man, you're crazy treat you if this is how you were taught you gain popularity, as we often see surrounding cheerleading culture in general that's actually incredibly problematic.
The poisons, the ability of the self on to see yourself in empowering matter.
And to see yourself as an equal to men specifically wings is actually quite obvious, like how do you see yourself as an equal to someone that you were taught.
You are object for the pleasure of like little of this also comes with signaling like the stereo type of the cheerleader who gets together with the with like the boy will from the football team on.
And like his men get teachers property in really subtle ways.
And so we actually don't see any kind of solution to this exception to abolish the entire sport I'm like given that it literally has no other purpose decides to objectify women and show that they are just objects for mail consumption.
We don't understand why we all value its existence out all this brings us to our second area of clash, which is about working against the gentry of athletics occurs.
The cheerleading is blade is like represents the plea in creation of the sport just for women when there isn't actually a neat women are perfectly capable of doing things like football, soccer dance recognize that shooting is literally dance on except dance usually doesn't end in doesn't have as many like sexually submissive undertones to it.
So we actually think that like there's really no unique niece that chilling fills so we don't understand what exists in the first place it's just there to propagate the objectification of women in a society that told and like to tell us that we'd all you boys more than girls, which is why are girls are like relegated to this motivation role rather than being the focus of the game in the way that football players are.
We think that what this is about is a round about whether we what kind of options we provide.
And what kids are pushed and work unclear on why there ought be in they're all be an option or an influence to do seemingly truly that is clearly so detrimental on when there are sports that are infinitely less problematic out.
There proud to propose.