The motion for today's debate is this house would subsidize bio fuels.
This house being the united states government, two main areas of clash.
The first on the importance of government subsidization we tell you that new technology is incredibly expensive and this on both an individual and corporate level, what this means is that in order to make a system change, especially a system oz ingrained in oil and gas, running cars as the american economy, there needs to be an outside impetus that shows corporations that there is an investment and shows individuals that they can still save money in the long term, let's explore these two leaders.
Separately recognize that on a corporate level corporations are generally risk averse what this means is that they do not pour money into things that they do not feel will bring back money to the corporation.
We tell you that corporations recognize america's dependence on oil recognize that they themselves cannot permeate the market, and thus do not put money into innovating new kinds of bio fuels or new kinds of bio fuel burning cars subsidizing the subsidizing bio fuels will also create a market for them.
What this means is now on an individual level, people will feel like bio fuel burning cars are worth the long term investment because recognize that with new technology it's likely that that car is going to be more expensive than the car they currently drive in order to justify giving in money for this new item, they also have to justify that in the long term, it will be cheaper.
This is the same rationale we use when people buy a car that is more expensive, but they expect to last for longer, they know that even though they're showing more money out in the short term in the long term table and up paying less, we tell you that the development of a market by means of a consumer signals to corporations that they can invest more freely and pump out new ideas and new innovations.
This brings us to our second area of clash, which has to do with the harms of the oil and gas industry.
Because the disc besides the obvious environmental impacts of upping, the amount of greenhouse gases that cause global warming and pollute our environment.
There's also an economic dependency cost recognize that the majority of powers that holds monopoly over oil and gas are middle eastern and non western what this means is country such as the united states have massive dependencies on middle eastern countries that calls them their economies to be dependent on how those functions what this means is that if in a given year, the middle eastern country, cannot produce enough oil or decide to raise the price in order to manipulate the market, the american economy goes with it.
This is a very problematic in so far as the whim of one of the leaders of these gas or oil industries can stop the american stop of america's highways for days.
But where's.
Second later this we tell you one of the massive reasons that america doesn't sanction saudi arabia but is willing to sanction other countries, such as israel is because they are not afraid they are more free to saudi arabia and the control they have over the american economy in the form of oil.
We tell you that if america is able to produce its own fuels and unafraid of the manipulation of its economy that saudi arabia and other middle eastern countries can because they are more likely to step up in situations of human rights, abuses more than this, though we tell you that subsidizing biofuels encourages innovation.
This is going to levels first, we can get benefits the domestic economy, but it also helps in the global economy first on the domestic economy we tell you that showing that he market exists and investing in that market signals to corporations that it's time to innovate in the sphere in order to make more money.
What this means is that more by all different kinds of bio fuels, different kinds of by a few running cars are more likely to be developed on our side of the house in so far as they know that they can actually sell their products but recognize with the stars on a global market as well.
If america is able to become one of the main global players in developing their own bio fuel and bio fuel technology, they're able to sell this to other global powers given this is a newly developing market and a few other countries have gotten very far.
We tell you that becoming one of the first allows americans to build their own niche market in the global economy for these reasons, proud to propose.