The problem with government is that they rely on the idea that the monarchy is full of awful people who were unrepresentative of the democratic coal and in trying to be to them ideals.
The problem with this is that they fail to understand exactly how much the monarchy has developed and exactly how little power it has first even the government speaker acknowledges that queen elizabeth has been much more moderate and hasn't actually committed any of the atrocities that they claim have happened more than this me tell you that it is likely that if queen elizabeth or any other member of the monarchy were to attempt a political coup, they would quickly be disestablished.
Because at this point it is accepted that their role is as a figure head and not one that is a political that is political.
What it comes down to is that the monarchy does very little good, but it also does very little bad.
We tell you that the amount of money and energy that would go into lifting the monarchy is thus unnecessary and unjustified given that they aren't actually committing any harm without too many areas of clash.
The first on public will recent polls have shown that more than three to everyone person wants to keep the monarchy.
This means first that the majority in a democracy wanted to exist this in itself should be enough given that a democratic government is one that accepts the majority will of its population, but even if that's enough pragmatically, it means it would be very socially challenging to disband it would cause a lot of disfavor to the individual citizens would be expensive and also would cause political english among those among like at least three to everyone individual living within the UK.
This means it is simply not worth it used this effort elsewhere to create real political change that can benefit lives rather than removing a relic that hasn't actually caused any harm.
If god wants to talk about finances, we think that the fact that you would need to create an alternative head of state funded the overhead costs of that switch in the first place, secure it like maintain security for the crown.
In the same time.
All of this would be equally expensive in addition to the costs of having to switch over.
And in addition to that the political turmoil that would occur over the method of election or selection of this individual, our secondary of clash hostage with why we think that the monarchy often serves political good.
We think that as the only beloved part of the government in times when there are contentious decisions being made, it is important, not to spend it increase political unity, but you don't see in other states without a monarchy in the united states.
There is constant anger over the way that congress operates over the way that the present operates and often times.
When this occurs, you see massive distrust with new government in dust fracturing within the national some of the population.
The reason you don't see this happen as viciously with in england and other u k states is because even when congress is messing up, even when you have problems with and branches of the government, you still believe in the queen, you still believe in that figure had we think that it is that when there is turmoil elsewhere, it is good to promote national unity and problematic to take the symbol that does so away more than this.
We think that the queen other members of the monarchy are often symbols for charity work in other social good because there are expected and turn up at charity events and donate money to good causes.
An advocate for good causes within the population follows much in the way that the first lady of the united states often takes up because of the advocate war.
We think the members of the monarchy operate a sip similar manner.
They show the members of their state, how they ought be behaving in a way that is socially good and others follow.
Finally, we think the monarchy trucks tourism in a way that other things don't the massive phenomenon of following the marriage of the prince and princess on screen a live tweeting the events looking a few outfits that their children of wearing all of this attracts a massive amount, popular pop vast amounts of people to the area in order to even catch a glance or look at where they live.
We think that this this kind of income is also something that disappears when you abolish the monarchy for these reasons, proud to oppose.