The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish double jeopardy, two main areas of clash, the first on the nature of our system of justice.
We think that a crime doesn't change just because time has passed if I murdered someone fifty years ago, they are still murdered now in the law remains the same and the victim was still harmed, and the person is still dead.
We think that the point that new evidence comes out, maybe the jury was stocked, and we have reason to believe there was an unfair acquittal.
Maybe there was a confession or even the hundreds of years of new technology that we have acquired allows us to do things like DNA testing and blood testing.
We think there that the justice system needs to represent a need to adjust to maintain what the original spirit as we think we have to look knowledge that sometimes the trial system is in perfect, and the only way to solve this is by allowing something like double jeopardy to solve for the situations because currently the problem is that people after getting a quick once and just setting up the right system circumstances, hiring an expensive enough lawyer, any of these kinds of things alike silencing enough witnesses means they get away scot free.
We think it is always a larger rights violation to let someone go free and to put someone who is innocent through the trial process twice, because in the end, if you are innocent, you are likely to be found so twice, but if you are guilty, you had to go free all forever after your trip after your tried once under double jeopardy, we think the impact of this is that if you if our justice system cannot be trusted or is inconsistent or allows people who are guilty to go free due to things like the lack of double jeopardy, we think people are okay with flaunting the law and losing trust in the system, things like OJ simpson getting away without any punishment in that writing the book if I did it describing the crime and being like, yeah, I totally did it are exactly the problem with our current society.
Criminals are okay with afterwards, basically going to the world look at the crime that I've committed, because they know they cannot answer it.
We think this decreases the general public's trust in the system and decreases.
The efficiency over all our secondary of clash, has to do with victims' rights, because we think that when we're evaluating the justice system were working in a system of rights violations and trying to compromise on who gets to be justified where and we need the most important person in the situations is often the victim because of someone else perpetrated against something against a victim, they have violated their rights and now owes a debt to them.
And we think because of what has been taken to them, we think there's a violation to we have to.
We think that it is important to be certain that the item that you are looked at the person who you're letting go is truly innocent in order to fulfill your obligation to the victim and their rights, even more than this, though that it is unlikely to be a system that is abused.
We think oftentimes resources are limited and re trying the same person over and over is not only taxing to all those involved, but also incredibly monetarily consuming and we just don't think that state legislatures leaders have that ability like even if someone is incredibly racist if they don't have the funds to amplify that recent they're, not going to re try the same person.
Seventy million times more than this, we don't think that victims are going to push for this either at the point that someone has been found innocent once or twice either they run out of money or they run out of energy to do so, we think it is important to recognize that if the victim wants closure a second acquittal oftentimes be enough, but the problem with allowing someone to not have to enter that second process in the first place is that you are lacking the potentiality of closure act.
All we always think that the large of rights violation is on the side of having double jeopardy.
We think that the only people who it protects are those who are guilty and therefore it ought be abolished for these reasons, proud to propose.