The motion for today's debate is that we should not holocaust denial should be a criminal offense, two main areas of clash, the first on why this is unprotected speech as per general freedom of speech like laws so recognize that we protect speech for most situations, except in those words, incendiary a k, a call to violence or causes significant harm to others.
This is why, for example, you can not yell fire in a crowded theater because clearly this is a situation in which your free speech causes significant harm to others that impedes their future rights, or for another example, wife call to arms by the communist party were not allowed on flyers because even though it is free speech to be a communist, it is not free speech to yell let us demolish the capitalist world through bringing up arms against our brethren.
So recognize that coal, costa nile clearly does both first it is often a call to violence against jews because they are seen as those people who unfairly put others in jail because they by faking the holocaust, but then this leads to physical violence in and of itself.
So how many times have we seen videos in which neo nazis assault jews by yelling that they face the holocaust and lee use this as an avenue by which they can justify their future violence.
We also think that it causes deep psychological harm to those listening, especially those of jewish descent or survivors of the holocaust, because it develops their experiences and says, thank you made this up.
You didn't actually experience the pain that you did before recognize that there is also no difference between psychological and physical harm other than the stigma that we have put in society upon it, because even when it won even are like chemical connections in our brain fire, the same way if you are too caught me than if you are to verbally assaulted me, we think that at that point, they become indistinguishable from each other there's also long term physical harm to jewish communities when they're developed aided and broken apart by this kind of speech.
So once we recognize that it is unprotected speech, we can then criminalize it off that alone.
But second let's talk about societal impacts because we think that if you can show you if we can show you that there is enough bad harms associated with holocaust denial.
Then we don't care if it's free speech that ought be protected, it ought be banned based on a utilitarian framework in which we see that the harms outweigh the like principled stance.
So let's talk about damage to jewish communities because when you to validate the community and cause others to see it as untrustworthy, it means you are taking away first a lot of the infrastructure that comes in from other communities, but also the and like public support, but also psychologically damaging the individuals that compose that community you're developing survivors experiences and it tells families that the losses they experienced are fake.
This anger that never gets answered on their side of the house.
One hole cut one hold close to holocaust, deniers get to walk free after actively harming those who have to listen to them.
We think that as with any kind of crime that causes the harm it is only just if they also have to pay the price of a criminal offense.
So if one of these nazis was to come up and stop a member of the jewish community, they would necessarily be placed in jail that have to pay like some sort of retributive price on this.
We think there is no different when they tell someone that they're like that the holocaust to speak in so far as the same kind of forms cost, but next we want.
And finally we want to talk about children because we think that holocaust denial is especially damaging read aloud for schools and allowed to be started by teachers very recently.
There was a scenario in which one what child is allowed to write an entire essay on how the holocaust we speak with sources brought up to verify it.
We think that children are often more impressionable than adults and that in these situations, children very well do believe the holocaust might have been faked this crazy long term on safe and more hateful world in which children are essentially raised with anti semitism don't want them poison the minds of our youth.
We think that it ought be a criminal offense for these reasons, proud to propose.