Internet centrist censorship should definitely not be increased.
First to clarify the round, we think that it's fine, if individual forms in their sub laws say we will remove language that is hate speech language that is bullying.
This is what we do not tolerate on our forums.
We think with this round deals with the specifically, if the government is increasing internet, send censorship and using their power to censor what people on the internet are saying too many areas of the three main areas of clash.
First on free speech and whites violation occurs, we think that regardless of whether my speech is mean or derogatory, unless I am calling to violence or actively hire her, am harming someone else it is protected.
This is because speeches away by which individuals actualize themselves and communicate themselves to the world silencing them essentially means erasing their existence given that if no one knows my thoughts, my feelings or my emotions, then they cannot validate that I exist in the world and have rights.
So it is the same thing as me not being there more than this, though, we think that a lot of the time the speech that one person might consider to be mean or to talk is speech that is valued by others.
There is no universal standard by which we say this speech is valuable, but this speech isn't because we think that when it currently out like a metric by a standard, the black lives matter movement often uses is they like to say fuck white people or insult white people as a race, we think this is probably acceptable given this is an insinuation that talks about the like years of oppression that have occurred.
There is often used productively.
The problem is that the same people that when the opposite occurs, when someone says fuck black people, this is something that would be considered hate speech and rightfully so should probably not exist.
The issue is that it depends on who is in power should you have a republican or a bunch of white supremacists and power they're, much more likely to say it is fuck white people that all be raced uncensored, not the opposite.
That is okay.
So we think that in the end at the point that everyone is going to consider a different type of speech valuable, and my speech is a way by which to relate to the world.
We think unless you're actively harming someone or calling to violence in that speech is protected our second area of class has to do with why we think it lends more gross dangerous ideologies when you censor them first, we think that people use the internet as an outlet and because I can go on to this form and you'll all my response.
I am much less likely to go into real life and shoot someone.
But also we think that the only way in which you can destroy these ideologies is by facing them head on and clashing with them, because if you can never point out the holes in the theory because you've banished it and not allowed to enter the internet or the marketplace of ideas, then the people who made it will still think they are right, the only way in which you can truly beat it down is if you are able to tell the rest of the world where they are incorrect and keep them from gaining popularity and followings are there have clawshots to do with whites open to government abuse sure in an ultimate world where liberals are in charge, then at least me and fellow liberals are happy.
The problem is that the conservative still armed and we would say that this is still oppressive and abusive of other people who are valid ideas but recognize also that governments change over time.
We think in a world where trump he recently got elected and the majority of both the senate and the house are republicans.
It is very possible that the old right does gain power and they change the standards in which we see, and suddenly the censorship isn't hate speech that I might consider hate speech, and it isn't like the kinds of it isn't the kind of mean or bullying things that I might consider me your point, but it flips the other direction.
It becomes censorship of liberal ideologies and censorship of progressive movements and protests for these reasons, proud to propose, oppose.