I stand in firm opposition to the motion.
We should subsidize bio fuels, although they have the name bio in the name.
And although many individuals like to pretend as the bio fuels are more efficient or better for the environment, most bio fuels are actually worse than fossil fuels.
Ethanol in particular, which is made from corn leads to massive over use of the corn population and generally leads to many of the same harms adds fossil fuels when government decides to step in and subsidize that it disrupts the market and harms the environment as well.
I have two arguments in today's debate.
First that bio fuels are inefficient.
And secondly, that they are bad for the environment on the inefficiency of bio fuels will discuss why the market is the best way in which to determine the price of certain goods and my stepping is generally bad that the market can capture the vast majority of information prices determine the harms in which certain individuals take to produce the good and the benefits which the consumer gets from consuming that good, the only time in which we ought to subsidize a particular technology is when there externalities would not be captured recognize that biofuels all are not turned it primarily the fossil fuels.
But biofuels do not produce generally less CO, two or other problematic things.
And then fossil fuels what this means is that the government is deciding to subsidize the particular usage of bio fuels, even though it is really not any better than possible field.
We are paying out of our pockets in order to allow certain people to buy fuel cheaper, additionally convincing individuals to buy this buy this fuel because decrease in price will also be bad ethanol is incredibly inefficient, it's less productive per gallon than your average thing of oil using this sort of bio fuel will do little more than harm the environment, disrupt the market and decrease our quality of life.
Markets are incredibly effective at determining the best good for society writ large in changing that price also harm society will lead to over production and over consumption based on what the optimal usage is and the taxpayer will pay for it as such.
We ought not subsidized by a field because it is incredibly inefficient in this regard.
My second argument is that bio feels bad for the environment for tool main reasons first is incredibly difficult to make when you take into account the environmental costs of growing corn growing any other kind of fuel and then changing it into a usable form, such that it can be used in cars or in the industry, the ultimate cost is incredibly high.
It causes a much more CO, two causes much more greenhouse gas emissions that cause much more environmental degradation than your average production of oil, even in cases of fracking.
What these bio fuels do is leach into the environment and bleach and to the environment to the pesticides used to grow them and then cost massive amounts to make in the first place.
The current subsidies of bio fuel are incredibly inefficient and have generally been opposed.
The only reason they haven't been actually removed is the lobbying power of the agricultural industry in the oil industry, which honestly do not have the best interest of the people at heart.
The second reason it's bad for the environment is it removes alternatives.
We think it's incredibly problematic that we remove alternative forms of fuel, then by a fuel and regular gasoline.
What I mean by this is that the reason we have pushes toward things like has a law or electric cars in general is because of increasing prices of fuel subsidizing bio fuel trying to make it a hip and cheaper alternative to all other forms of transportation will ultimately make it so things like electric cars or hybrid cars will fall in popularity.
This is incredibly problematic because this is the only way that we can decrease our footsteps in terms of transportation as such.
We should not subsidize biofuels.