I stand firm opposition to the motion that we should adopt libertarianism they're, few political ideologies as fundamentally misconstrued as fundamentally miss champion's as libertarianism is a system which favors the rich and the powerful, although the adoption of libertarianism in many ways seems like the adoption of natural forms of power, natural ways of thinking we would say that all that does is create a vacuum or the presently rich and powerful can decide literally every rule that they want for themselves incredibly little government oversight, one overview before three reasons why you should not adopt libertarianism.
My overview is very simply that in any western level democracy where this kind of debate would ever be possible, the alternatives, our liberty and democracy without adopting libertarianism, we can easily adopt a system where every individual gets a say in the government where there's not profound amounts of gerrymandering or abuse and where there is ample amounts of government intervention and regulation in this speech, I'm going to show it, why is such that we have the social benefits of government regulation and control that we need to solve pro found the problematic like the actual problems.
And thirdly, how the powerful can never regulate themselves first off on social benefits.
The most obvious way in which a libertarianism can exert itself in the united states or a variety of other western liberal governments this by the immediate removal of social benefits and taxes.
He would say things like welfare unemployment.
Social security are essential in the status quo for helping people survive, many people who have already retired, could not buy food housing, any of the necessities if not for social security.
But even if we only have this debate in the abstract rather than having a debate about the specific people who would literally starve as a result of this policy, we would say that every government has people at the lows and society who do that genetic factors to historical factors have been pushed to the bottom and cannot afford the basic necessities if the government refuses to provide them no one else will we see that in the status quo there's already incredible difficulty getting private industry to actually invest in the poorest people in society, they typically do it because the capitalist incentive of having a tax benefit is also there, and because it's good for PR the system where the government has signaled that social benefits and social welfare are not a key interest and that there is no benefits to corporations.
We think that this would also fall.
And at that point, the poorest individuals would have no ability to essentially feed themselves, which is the greatest harm that can be actualized upon them to the government action.
The second argument is that this creates profound collective action problems.
We think things like roads, we think a sense of urgency, services must be solved through collective action.
The alternative is private individuals, creating toll roads, decreasing the efficiency of entire society is creating police forces and fire services first making it so they have total power to control individuals by literally refusing them lifesaving services and secondly, refusing the poor the services making their lives, even more difficult, even the status quo is incredibly expensive to be poor at the point where it got parkland officials can charge even more to poor families.
We think that the system is fundamentally unjust.
My third argument is the idea of regulation you cannot trust individuals to police themselves.
This is been seen throughout history.
Most recently in the financial sector, with two thousand two thousand eight financial crisis, and we think that the doctor libertarianism is just giving the power at to the individuals who must be policed over all things.
These two inevitable economic destruction, such as this in two thousand eight novel abuses by the powerful and a system, which is essentially a vacuum where other powerful actors can take the reins to the harm of all society for this reason, we should not a top libertarianism.