I stand and firm opposition to the motion.
We should introduce covenant marriages as an overview.
I want to discuss what this motion is actually doing because people can still have covenant marriages, but they cannot be recognized by the government.
It is unclear why too evangelical and the visuals in the the government's accommodation to force them into these covenant marriages, if two people continue with their evangelical beliefs and truly believe that their marriage ought not be disrupted, then they can simply not get a divorce, they can have a non binding agreement to have a covenant marriage.
However, when government steps in it truly removes any option from harvard parties will also pushing government into religion and religion into government, it is terrible to set a precedent in which religious individuals can pass their traditions into law.
This is this sort of reason why queer individuals, particularly in the united states were oppressed evangelicals were able to put their belief into law and pass anti sodomy laws and then pass it to get marriage laws which made it so clear individuals were oppressed by the state.
At this point, there is very little utility to be gained by the government, recognizing the sort of marriage but very clear precedent for profound harm.
Additionally, though we have two more arguments to show my covenant marriages are bad first off on future writes it is unjust to sign away your future right and such a drastic agreement.
There are three conditions in which future rights can be signed away in a meaningful way.
First that these future rights will come back after a particular expiration date that is not incredibly far off covenant marriages, aren't tended to last until death, the inability for these contracts to simply go away or expire means that these people have signed away their rights in perpetuity.
It is unclear if they will hold the same religious belief or hold the same love that push them into the marriage and as such, they are pressing their future selves.
Secondly, though unpredictability there is literally no predictability when going into a marriage people change when you live with them, people change and have a child with them, people change.
And you just spent enough time with them is impossible to predict what will happen after a marriage and as such there's, not good picked ability when people sign contracts traditionally is with a great understanding and a huge amount of paperwork work which allows the lot to step in worse certain conditions met even if conditions are written into the covenant marriage which allows them to get out of it, if they're say being abused, these can always be hidden as I discussed my next argument.
Finally, though the another way you can sign away your future writes as if there is profound utility it from the having this contract in place.
But as I already discussed individuals could have a covenant marriage between them but do not need the government to recognize that and otherwise restrict the rights of one or both parties at this point.
There is no reason why the government should step in and allow people to oppress themselves or press them their spouses using a covenant marriage.
The second argument I'd like to put forward, though, is that leverages important in the sort of relationships in abusive relationships, divorce isn't in incredibly important form of leverage to get to a party out of that marriage when individuals live in an abusive household, a live under it condition of profound stress, which at times can be a can to torture the government has an obligation, not to torture enemy combatants.
So it very clearly has an obligation to its own citizens to let them get out of torturous situations very, pretty fit briefly I'd like to address the point of children.
Because what tim is right that living in a household with a good marriage is preferable to living with divorced parents is clearly preferable to live with divorced parents than a terrible meritor people are shouting all the time and giving their children anxiety or other conditions as such.
We oppose covenant marriages.