I stand firm opposition to the motion.
We should support same sex marriage as a brief overview.
I want to say that when we say marriage, we don't mean the collection of tax benefits and other recognition that individuals get from the government and institutions, you would say that same sex couples should get the same sort of tax benefits as heterosexual couples in the same way we would say that things like hospitals and insurance programs should provide the same benefits to same sex couples as they do to heterosexual couples.
However, we think that the label of marriage is reserved for particular couples and particular institutions that same sex marriage is fundamentally an oxymoron with this in mind, three arguments to support this motion.
First marriage is inherently religious marriage is an institution comes from a long history developed by religious institutions.
It was fundamentally a way in which to individuals of the opposite sex could come together and he married before god, if you look in marriage vows be around the world, particularly historical marriage vows they were all about religious in the visuals coming together before god and making a union at the point where these religions fundamentally oppose same sex.
Marriage is unclear.
I we should enforce the will of the government to enforce the will of these couples against their own religion at the point where someone things that they are going to hell if they support a same sex marriage, we think the utility gained by having a label upon your union verses the disk utility, which comes from fundamentally violating your religion and violating your community and ignoring the systems of belief that you grew up with.
We think it is clear that individual should be able to refuse to provide same sex marriages, the same way we would see the government can continue to ban same sex marriages in so far as marriage once again is an inherently religious institution.
If there is a part keeler community, which wants to support same sex, marriage they're going against the teachings of historical religion and as such are not being true members of that religion.
So we would say that same sex marriage still would not be religiously permissible.
My second argument is that marriage is also inherently oppressive.
It is a patriarchal system which put women below men and forced individuals into situations that they did thought you didn't want to be, and it took away the autonomy of both partners from splitting from the union and really abandoning their partner when they feel like it would be the most utile as such use it marriage is inherently bad, it promotes problematic norms within society and propagating it by supporting same sex.
Marriage simply expands is problematic norms, even further anti marriage activists also on the anti same sex marriage activists in so far as whenever you support marriage you're supporting a public institution which continues to oppress women around the world and large cities to power about this with in relationships which we think are inherently problematic.
My third and final argument is that this is a waste of resources among activists supporting same sex marriage only government level will lead to a huge number of people leaving the LGBTQ movement, an activist forces when the schools were desegregated in the south, the civil rights movement lot lost a huge number of white allies simply because they thought the fight was done in the same vein supporting same sex marriage in passing same sex.
Marriage laws means a huge number of street activists will leave the community and stop fighting for the goals of LGBTQ a people as a result, things like trance rates, things like gay homelessness will continue.
And these are far more problematic.
I don't really care if two straight of people to be up to three people to give people can get married particular that wealthy people if queer teens are still in the street dying to the homelessness as such, we think the harms of as a result of losing activists is far greater than the benefits of simply labeling if taken our union as such, we oppose same sex marriage.