At a fundamental level, the right of asylum is the right to impose, although we regret any repression that individuals face as a result of their government or institutions, which are powerful within their state.
We believe that governments have no obligation to actually provide individuals asylum as such, we should limit the right to asylum in all western liberal democracies.
Our model is simple.
We believe that western love the moxie's should not allow criminals into the state.
This does not include political crimes because anyone who is running from the state will likely be guilty of that, but includes violent crimes or even low misdemeanors.
We believe governments should retain the right to refuse these individuals.
It definitely.
We believe that asylum seekers should only be brought into the state if they add to the economy or society in some meaningful way.
If a job is already massively overly saturated immigrants should not be brought in even if there have been persecuted by their state, we have two arguments to support this motion.
First on the obligations of government, the obligations of government are first and foremost to the people within the state illegitimacy is derived from the people because the ancestors of the citizens either we created the state or allowed other individuals into the state who have been deemed appropriate, fundamentally all moral legitimacy, any legitimacy, which would give the state the power to use violence to do taxation or to create a military is derived from the people with in that state and not foreign powers.
Additionally, the power of the state is derived from the people the patent, the state speaks in terms of money, and in terms of military force, both of these are derived from the people in the former taxation and the ability to create and control a militar militarily as such a government has no obligations outside of the people within the state is incredibly important to have this sort of adding to ensure the prosperity of the people in the state as well recognize that criminals have high recidivism rates, particularly when they commit violent crimes and individuals who do not have a job or cannot get a job because an oversaturation, the market occurs are far more likely to turn to crime.
Additionally, when individuals take jobs from other individuals in a certain western liberal democracy, there it what more could push those people in the crime and harm the families and communities which could back create and control the state as such governments have to vet the individuals who come in through asylum and must limit that right.
The second independent argument is that there are people who have waited or otherwise more deserving recognize that in most western liberal democracies, there's a huge waiting list for immigrants who have applied to get into the state and simply waited under some value in the desert claims between these two groups first, the on political persecution of verses immigrant harms.
If you take the united states as an example, a huge number of immigrants from mexico and south america are running from dire, give us situations of poverty or running from similar persecution, but I've not been recognized by the united states.
Things like cartel.
Violence is far less likely to get you the right to asylum than violence from the state.
So in the vast majority of situations, these people have just as many claims to come into a western democracy as individuals who want the the right to asylum.
However, the individuals on the it like waiting list have waited a huge amount of time they have spent they've got the system legally and have otherwise respected the rules and regulations of the people and as such have a greater desert claim to come into the state, we would further say that no individual who seeks asylum has a right to a particular state and given the variety of states who will accept individuals and even the non western liberal democracies was so except individuals they have no that the right to asylum can be limited legitimately to protect the people within a particular state.
Thank you.