I stand in firm opposition to the motion.
We should introduce a flat tax I'm going to break this part speech into three parts.
First, so I'm going to discuss the morality of a flat versus progressive tax.
Then discuss why progressive taxation is the most utile way to do it.
And then thirdly, discuss why customisation is key when it comes to taxes first off on morals.
Well tim may claim that the wealthy have the only claim to their property and the government has no right to take that money away.
We would fundamentally disagree.
First, we don't think a strong link between individuals humanity and the property they control was actually created instead, we think government action and taxes by extension art simply about utility, and that taking property away from individuals is a tradition that has existed throughout history and is again the fundamental to the construction of any functioning government and is always essential to helping the most marginalized within a particular community.
Additionally, we would say that the wealthiest got their power on the backs of the poor individuals were still making a large amount of money employ, typically huge amounts of poor workers and depend on poor and middle class individuals to buy their goods, their increase the reciprocal obligation to be paid back the suffering people who you have manipulated and profited from additionally individuals who got their money from a historical fun to that whose family has had money going back typically made their money by stealing or further oppressing, marginalized peoples and pushing people into poverty is unclear why donald trump coming from a millionaire family, deserves that all this money when it came on the back of poor individuals were pushed out of society and were essentially a push into the cycle of poverty in order to push their family up.
Additionally, though we would say that the claim to property has nothing to do with humanity is based on instead on utility.
The reason we don't take everyone's property away the reason we don't steal people's goods or take their homes away and redistribute them evenly is because we believe that it would lead to less you tile outcomes if it were possible to evenly distribute all goods in all situations and then still have a functioning and profitable society still have good foreign direct investment, we would do so it's simply that this is the most effective and and pragmatic way to actually do taxes.
Finally, we would say that the rich actually use tax money, the most just look at the owner of walmart, the average employee is on is on food stamps, date a proportion of their living wage comes from the sort of tax revenue and as such the rich use it to push themselves in power, they also use roads, the most because they have the most transportation uses they ship goods and largely, I use get the benefit of some of the most effective school systems through their the money that they pay now going to my subs to material.
We believe progressive taxes are the most utile because the poorest people have the greatest marginal value of a dollar also extends to the marginal value of a percentage of their income.
If the rich person loses ten percent of their income, they can't buy more caviar art more fancy food.
When a poor person loses a huge percentage of their income, they cannot survive, they cannot buy food, shelter or basic living conditions.
They can't pay for internet transportation, which is essential for many jobs in twenty first century at the point where people will starve to a flat tax, it is on just now the second point of substance material that customization is key as tim says, the role of government is to incentivize particular action and to maximize utility, the ability to have a progressive and somewhat complicated tax system allows the government to disincentive ice particular action or otherwise levy up fees on individuals who benefit the most from taxes, which as we said where the wealthiest people as such, we believe that we should not introduce a flat tax.