I stand in firm opposition to the motion cannabis should be legalized.
I have two arguments.
Try cannabis should not be legalized.
But first, I have few overviews to address some of will's arguments.
First US on crime and dessert when individuals commit a crime and they are taking an action against society we've elected politicians.
We have voted in favor of laws, which say that the consumption of cannabis ought to be illegal because the good and right, sir idiosyncratic and determined by the society in which actions are taking place when individuals take actions in opposition to the rules of law, there are essentially saying that your interpretation of the good is fundamentally incorrect that they ought be outside the law when it is best for them, we think that individuals who have harms against them after breaking the law do not serve additional collections from government.
We would say that if a legal guns were on average more dangerous than legal guns, there'd be no reason that the government should expand gun access to individuals who would otherwise be prevented from buying a legal gun, we think that once individuals have consented to the harms of a legal action by ignoring the rule of law, they ought get what is coming to them.
Secondly, I want to say about the idea of oppression and racism cops will always find a reason to oppressed black bodies, oppressed black individuals just look to for landau castle.
He literally followed the instructions of the cop to the letter.
He said exactly what he needed to.
He admitted, he had a gun in the car as gun rights activists say you ought to do when dealing with a cop and he was shocked until he was dead.
What this means is that the problem of racism is not a problem of any individual policy, it must be solved through overall broad societal change any fundamental restructuring of the police system, allowing cannabis will not solve this.
We see this in states like oregon, washington and alaska, the these states have already had investigations by the department of justice but continue to be racist as it is essentially a symptom of the police system, legalizing pot, legalizing cannabis will not solve this two arguments for why legalizing cannabis is a bad idea.
First often in international implications, the united states has pushed its ideas and pushed its policy on the world at large states have adopted strong anti drug policies as a result of the united states influence and now it's been pushed into the rule of law, those states and been determined to be the societal good as I discuss in my overview.
What this means is that if the united states abandons this policy abandons, the states which itself has pushed to adopt certain policies in these states will be mean massively harm to the states depend on united states support both philosophically and in a lot of cases financially to stop the usage of drugs and the united states abandoned abandoning them now would be fundamentally unjust on cartels I'd like to discuss the idea.
The cartels will shift to another option another product if we legalize coke receiving a cook and cannabis, they could leave they could start to sell hard drugs were often move to things like human trafficking.
Both of these are terrible options that are far more likely if the cartel has no other option, the cartel has huge infrastructure, put in place to smuggled goods into the united states and will continue these paths.
Even if cannabis is legalized as such, we should allow them to continue selling cannabis rather than shifting to a more problematic product.
The second argument is about efficiency and happiness.
Autonomy is threatened by cannabis, one individual smoke, their motivation goes down, typically their memories harmed this is huge externalities that can harm the people around you driving under the influence can make it more likely that you'll kill someone.
But additionally, we believe you can regulate internet or individual action when individuals are told they must wear a helmet or face fines that is a saying that profoundly a logical individual actions should not be regulated by government.
We think is both philosophically consistent and essential that government legislate this sort of action and as such cannabis should not be legalized.