We should further exploit unconventional oil.
So in this debate we want to talk primarily about the benefits of energy independence.
And we want to explain why in a world in which global warming is a fact at this point and not something that is going to be easily avoided.
We think it is beneficial for states to invest in unconventional oil, such as oil sands and tar and things of that nature moving forward.
Okay, so firstly, under energy in the pentagon talk about monopolies in OPEC.
So we think that outside of unconventional oil possessions, most oil, most conventional oil is controlled by the OPEC monopoly, and we think that the OPEC monopoly is gay not that in the world for a few reasons.
Firstly, the countries that compose OPEC largely countries in the middle east authoritarian countries can immense amounts of political clout because of the monopoly that they have in the status quo OPEC essentially is able to act as a cartel.
It gives more political power to regions and to countries that are bad countries in the world.
What we mean by bad countries are the user home.
These are nations that fundamentally do not respect the rights of their citizens countries like saudi arabia countries like venezuela countries where human rights are not respected, where women's rights are not respected, and we think that because they have this phenomenon, oil there's very little that the international world can do to try and combat the human rights abuses that take place in the states because they can raise the prices of oil or they can embargo there, while like happened in the united states under jimmy carter where an oil embargo took place in OPEC refused to sell to the united states.
We think by exploiting unconventional sources of oil, more international action can be taken against these countries, which is a good and further, we think that OPEC is essentially a price manipulator, which means that the prices that are being charged in the status quo for conventional oil do not match what the fair market would breed.
So we think that unconventional oil also has its benefits outside of OPEC.
We think that firstly, on french soil increases the supply of oil and it drives down prices for everyone.
This means that even if you are working in the industry that your oil prices are going to go down and that there are large benefits for all citizens with the nation because everyone is either on the grid that is powered by conventional oil or uses products such as cars that require this type of oil.
We also think that in some devices, businesses and job creation if you exploit on conventional oil in the status quo, the US job market another job markets are doing fairly well, but they started to stagnate, especially for unskilled workers.
We think the introducing on conventional oil industries getting ten increased jobs, particularly for people like these people that have been pushed out of manual labor fields such as mining and other areas we think that much oil can bring jobs back to those unskilled labors in particular to something that we think the economy desperately needs.
Finally, we think that energy dependence keeps profits in the country in the status quo oil profits for the most part go outside of the country they're lost to our GDP and the money that otherwise could then re invested by putting the money in american pockets by providing it to american job creators or you know, domestic job creators that money can then be reinvested further into the market and can gradually increase the GDP is money continues to be exchanged.
We think that that is a preferable world.
The one in which all of our oil money all the money that is spent conventional oil billions of dollars every year continues to flood outside of the domestic economy, and we think that we get eight all around, hold your economy and all around better economy, especially for unskilled workers.
If we invest in on conventional oil, we recognize that global warming is a problem, but we don't think that this is a meaningful token point making it worse.
And for these reasons we should further exploit unconventional oil.