We should abolish the united nations security council veto power.
So the status quo, the united nations has five members of the security council that are permanent and have, you know, power the rest of the members, alternate on I believe a yearly basis, but they they rotate amongst people or member states of the u and aside from the united states, sure the great britain, china, france, these are the four nations that have veto power on the UN security council.
We think that we should take with that veto power those nations, and instead should institute a system in which two thirds two thirds vote by the security council would allow for action to be taken military action or intervention to be taken by the security council.
This will also allow them to send cases the I CC in the status quo again, this needs get past of the gets get past a veto, which we don't think should be the case anymore.
So why do we think that this is necessary.
We think that the security council is entirely marred by in activity in an action in the status quo in the reason for that is that political interests specifically from china, russia and the united states prevent action in these instances because they have a vested interest in maintaining their sphere of influence and control over specific reasons for regions, for example, sirius something that simply cannot be acted on by the united nations because russia has bested oil interest and other types of interests and the assad regime are also in the case of places like north korea, china refuses to allow the united nations to intervene.
They would never allow some sort of referendum to pass the security council.
We think that this goes against the purpose of the US you in his mentor is meant to foster global cooperation between powers both large and small.
We think there's there's that there's a long history of abuse if imperial question in the u existed to try and solve for that to ensure that there was some sort of equal equalizing, the playing field in international relations.
You one place is power disproportionately through the security council, imperial interests, which means that in the instances in which these major super powers in the world, aligning their interests and choose to go after small nations user oftentimes nations that at least protected and already the ones that are most harmed by former imperial interaction, we also think that if you ever want to be able to go after powerful states to enforce the regulations on things like human rights and other things that you want exist to foster things like protecting geneva convention rights and protections in the human rights to referendum treaties that exist between states, we think you only way you can ever get that type of protection, especially on large states like china.
Russia is to remove the veto power that they currently have in practice.
This is been a horrible system that protects despot's like those in so you're in north korea protects super powers that systemically abuse human rights, whether it's individuals that are gay in russia or individuals were minority in black in the united states, we think that no action can never be taken against the super powers by international body by the body that is supposed to regulate use human rights abuses that is the you.
And if these countries maintain their veto power, we can force would be more likely in those situations, even in those instances where a few interest contradict with that even if you're not going to be able to go out against the united states or china anytime soon it still preferable to have you and resolutions and sure that the violence that is currently being done in places like north korea and syria instances which lives are daily on the line, we think that these are instances in which you and has an obligation to act in the current system doesn't allow for that possibility.
And for these reasons we should abolish the united nations security council veto power.