Further exploit hydroelectric dams, so we want to start off this debate by explaining to me in awe principles that we're gonna got argumentation round.
The first is that it's important to recognize in this debate, there's a fungible amount of resources available for clean energy development and clean energy technology there only so many investors willing to enter into the green tech market there's only so many resources available there's only so many people that are qualified to work in the engineering in the development of these types of technology.
So when we're talking about whether or not we're going to further explain hydroelectric dams, we don't think the man compared his between this and also fuels rather between this and other types of green tax, such as solar and wind energy.
And the second thing that's important to recognize is that when we're talking about clean energy technology, what's important is not just the fact that we make the transition to clean energy tax, but also that we quickly scale up because it's not just a matter of converting but doing so in a very fast manner, ensuring that the worst climate change impacts don't come to pass in the only way to do that is by scaling up quickly.
So that the vast majority of people are on the green energy of greater using green tact for their energy consumption, and their energy needs and what's important is that in order to have this type of scale up, you can only choose to develop and really invest in one maybe two types of technology because you need to put so many of your resources into the investigation.
Yeah, they're nearing into the further development to make these types of technologies more official.
So what we're gonna argues that hydroelectric dams, ari less useful form of green energy than specifically solar or wind.
So there are a few reasons why you think is the case.
So firstly, it's important recognize that hydroelectric dams are non transferable.
And what this means is that while they're useful in some areas where they're possible in which there's large rivers or other sources of immense sounds of running water in areas where this isn't the case areas that are very draw your mountainous or don't have these rivers nearby this type of technology is not very useful in these areas.
And while you can use this technology for a fairly large grade to power a fairly large group it's, not going to be enough to sustain many cities on the same great from the same source.
And so we think that compared to things like solar energy in which you can put a solar panel on basically almost any house in america at this point and you'll be able to get almost enough energy to pay basically autonomously fuel that house.
We think that this is just a much less efficient tool, certainly hydroelectric dams come with habitat destruction that other types of energy such as solar energy done when you develop a hydroelectric dam, you really interfere with eco systems that are involved in whether dams being developed there's a lot of development that takes place not just for the dam, but also the area surrounding the dam because we need to build up the infrastructure that will be able to transport the power.
You need to be able to put things in place so that people can work in the area all these things from the ecosystem in these areas.
Wars, other types of green tax are less intrusive.
We think that's just better for the environment, better a better because of the philosophy of green tech.
And finally, we would say that other technologies are further ahead, there's been massive recent investment in solar cells, there's already an immense amount of infrastructure and development existing and solar cells.
So we think that if we were to transition to solar energy of men, hydroelectric dams are primary form of green technology that we would have a much better chance of scaling up quickly, and we think there'd be more political will for their scale up in what's, important members.
What we explained to the beginning, sorry, fungible amount of resources and scalable choirs, using almost all the resources of for going to do it fast enough for these reasons we should not further exploit.
Hydroelectric dams.