We should ban beauty contests in the status quo beauty, contest or large used to allow women to be viewed through mail games, which largely male candles in patriarchal ideas of beauty, aren't forced upon women awards are given to them for how well they can ascribe to those patriarchal ideas.
We think that this is a basket outdated notion that beauty contest only exist perpetuate these notions with very little gain for the pageant entry individuals themselves, so that's, what we're gonna talk about the speech about how beauty contest setback norms in about why this is a justification for that.
So why should set that norms within in practice, people are awarded largely for traditional beauty standards when you use something like the miss america pageant at the miss universe pageant, they have sections of what people are supposed to give speeches about things, they're passionate about things that show off talents that they have.
But when you see these things you recognize that these women are largely not judge based on all those possibilities, looking president donald trump who had a stake in miss america and miss universe as an individual who enforce those ideas of those patriarchal martians of beauty in a woman and use those things as large incredible as a means of judging women and did so in these pageants, we think that given that this is the case is over.
We clear that the vast majority of judgment that takes place in this is almost solely on the books of women.
We think this reinforces the idea of women being objectified that noone can be distilled into the idea of an object that you view as beautiful or not beautiful in which you can award as you would ward any other painting or artwork, we think that this the humanizes the women and we actually think it creates a mental notes of trauma to the people that participate in these things.
And in addition, we increase the social pressure, we recognize that beauty standards are created by beauty contest, but they do serve as a major force for enforcing those things with very little gain for the women that compete in these things.
Maybe they are maybe one or two women are able to earn enough money to survive for a time that this does not weigh the fact that little girls and people that are growing up impressionable young women are learning about what they need to look like what they need to do how their bodies need to look when you view the youth beauty contests, we think that the using force incredibly unhealthy standards, both physically unhealthy and mentally unhealthy for these girls, and we simply don't think it is worth the risk.
We think when you read it also reproduces the practice of women being judged through the male gaze, a practice that has been perpetuated throughout all of human history.
We think that as an enlightened modern society, we shouldn't pastor in society in which women don't need to go to men for their type of for today don't to go to men for approval rather can get that approval internally to justify their existence based on things other than their appearance.
So why do you think that these arguments are enough to justify the ban won't banter acceptable when there are large social externalities.
We mean by this is that the government is justified in intervening to ban any sort of product or practice in these types of things.
When the practices of that type of thing that is being banned extend beyond those that are able to consent into impacts will mean by this is that women young girls are not able to consent to the harms the psychological harms that come from beauty contest.
Well, contestants themselves, medium consent.
These things, the fact that these things inevitably influence people on a sub conscious and unconscious level, is something that the p that these people cannot consent into that goes against the idea of the basic worth of women as human beings and not as objects when it undermines the basic humanity of these people without the consent of individuals who are sub consciously been impacted in this way, we think it's a sufficient enough sufficient enough reason to ban beauty contest.
And we think that there is clear harm that arrive, she given all these things.
We believe we should ban beauty contests.