We should not abolish the US electoral college, so well, people maybe with an uproar given that the two of the last five presidential elections resulted in a result in which the popular vote winner did not win the electoral college and therefore do not become president of the united states.
We think that it's important to take a step back and recognize that there's no correct way for the US democracy to function majoritarian ism isn't, necessarily the best way for the government to to function for the best way for people to make decisions.
And in fact, majoritarian isn't houses, starkly been a way in which marginalized groups have been oppressed in which tons of violence and state violence has occurred against marginalized groups.
And we think that there's no correct way for the democratic system to work and there's no system that's going to be entirely democratic because it's always necessarily going to be the case that some voices are marginalized and some voices are ignored.
We think you need to do is the united states government is present an option in which the country as a whole is as represented by selection results as pop as possible.
We think the popular vote leads to connect up, leads to control simply by urban areas at the expense of rural areas.
We think that we would end up seeing this and presidential election which candidates only spend their time in urban areas.
They only spend their time in cities and people in rural areas are never going to be able to have their voices heard.
We think that that's simply not fair.
We think that all american individual should be valued equally by the president, we think that is the only government official that exist to represent the government or the the country are as a whole, we think that person should be forced to recognize that the issues of rural and urban of coastal states enough internal states of all these groups and we think that the US electoral college best does her best ensures that that's the case.
So even if you reasons why we think the electoral college is good.
The first is that a correct very black, a big state control of the senate by giving more weight to those big states with this means is that the electoral college injures the big states are given a greater weight, even though in the senate.
Those states are given the same way as everyone else.
So it's a balancing factor it's, a system of the checks and balances that were created internally to the US government it'll, it ensures that those big states get greater representation in a way that the other was still in the senate, which means that in the highest office, those states are balanced out by the fact that in the senate they don't get as much of a voice as many think they should furthermore, it allows for swing states to get to put issues on the table that otherwise never would been able to.
So we think that for example, ohio in an election which only the popular votes matter is not going to be a state that gets very much attention, but every four years against a ton of attention to the u s electoral college because it's a swing state what this means is that these interior rust belt states the states such as ohio and indiana in virginia states otherwise wouldn't get a lot of attention because they don't have big urban centers, get attention ensures that those issues get to the national stage means that people that are otherwise largely ignored by the political we get their voices heard.
We can that's crucial, especially in a time where political leaders of is running at a higher level than ever finally, we think it ensures trans regional appeal of the president as I said the presidential office, the only office and US government that is elected by the whole country.
What this means is that that person needs to have appeals, not just a california new york in the urban beeps that live in those coastal areas.
But to all people, the government, the present, the united states, is the president of new york in the president of iowa and the president of montana, and as such even if they don't win, the electoral college in every single state they're more likely to result with the president that has eight trans mutual appeal than you otherwise would if you simply allowed for the popular vote to ensure that seventy percent of californians and seventy percent of new yorkers and of deciding who's going to be present in the united states that's, not fair to those inside the country that's, not there the vast majority of americans.
And for this reason we should not abolish the u s electoral college.