We should not adopt vegetarianism.
So firstly, what's important recognizes the government defined to this debate is one in which people have an obligation to adopt this type of lifestyle to be a vegetarian.
So we're going to explain firstly, why animal simply do not deserve rights and secondly, we're going to respond to some of the arguments that they make about how meat production is simply a human arm, and we have to respect the rights of humans are gonna explain why adopting vegetarianism is not the only way that this can be done and why that means you don't have an obligation to do this.
Okay, so firstly, on animal rights, we want to say that rights are inherently a social construct and we mean by this is that right don't just come objectively how did the universe around as they are just these things that a few really exist and are plied humanity, but rather, they are constructed by societies for the purpose of utility societies, create these rights for the purpose of making human lives, more meaningful more valuable and giving protections on humans that are more fair.
So why do we think that animals should not be included in this conversation.
Well, firstly, we think the whole purpose of rights is to only include those that are part of that dialogue, even if that doesn't mean that.
And this doesn't mean that every single human being needs to be involved in the legislation of rights, etcetera, but people themselves are ethical actors, they can pose ethical queries, and they can make ethical choices.
But this simply isn't the case for animals, for example, largely writer based on a reciprocal nature.
And what this means is that people respect my rights because I consent and I choose to protect their rights.
And this is what punishment comes in, and basically every legal system in the world in so far as when I stop choosing to respect your rights when I stop reciprocating those rights to you than my rights become void, and that is why I can be punished.
But this isn't the case for animals, animals have no cognitive ability to respect the rights of other people, and therefore we can hold them to the same standard and they fall out the frame of the question for the more they can internalize right.
So even if we were to give animals rights, we were to say we're going to ensure that all animals have these ten writes up there's, no way for them to understand that rights have been placed upon them and therefore they can't internalize the value of those rights and they can't act upon those rights.
So given that this is the case, and furthermore, that animals are just not a part of our society, they are part of our social constructs, yes, we may pass, and then we give certain rights to those pads.
But this is what this debate is about this is about whether or not farm animals deserve the same level of rights as humans, or even any sort of rights at all given that animals are not part of that construct, and given that animals can reciprocate or respond to rights in any way.
We don't think that they have these types of rights.
If we think that suffering is bad and that we should prevent suffering there's waves to do that without adopting vegetarianism.
But we don't think that that is something that is meaningful about animals it's about how we internalize and respond to animal harm it's, not about applying rights to animals themselves.
And therefore, we don't think you need to adopt sectarianism because animals themselves have rights.
So finally on meat production responding to the government side a little bit, we think that the funds can be alleviated and a number of other ways first, you can cut consumption.
So even if you want to be ethical and how you grow with using a meat and and what not how the amount of input that goes into your heart, your consumption, instead of you need five days a week you can eat one day a week and that's a way to kind of help the burden that me creates without becoming vegetarian.
You can also increase prices is a farmer, and finally you can limit land allocation for the production of meat.
So if land allocation in the use of land is so inefficient so harmful bacteria is harming humanity, you can create regulations to allocate only a certain amount of land for that, but none of this involves becoming a vegetarian.
None of this requires vegetarianism of people, and therefore people do not have this all began obligation because of these, and we should not adopt vegetarianism.