We should not introduce a flat tax argument is essentially going to come in two parts.
The first part is that a flat tax is inherently aggressive, a regressive tax based on the system of taxation and a system of capitalism that we live in.
And the second argument.
And the second prong is essentially why regressive tax is always going to be bad.
Alright, so let's talk about why flat tax is regressive tax means that everyone is paying in roughly equal percentage of their income to the government.
What this means is that when you have a lower income, you spend your giving up an equal percentage of your income, no matter how much more money someone else's me one year of a lower income, each dollar is is much more valuable than any single dollar that someone who is more wealthy has no reason for this is that when you're making say twenty thousand dollars a year, you're living near the poverty line, you're living with very little room left to function before taxes or even taken account.
But if you're living off, say, two million dollars a year europe so dramatically above the poverty line that most of those millions of dollars are not necessary in order for you to live in a comfortable environment to live a comfortable life in which all of your needs are being met.
The problem is when you have the so called flat tax that person that's making twenty thousand dollars a year say that taxes twenty five percent that person making twenty thousand dollars a year, not only has fifteen thousand dollars to live off of below the poverty line.
And again, those five thousand dollars are much more important than the five hundred thousand dollars that that person is making two million dollars is giving up, and while it may sound ridiculous to say that it's more onerous on the person that's giving a five thousand dollars to the government that is to the person that's giving a five hundred thousand dollars to the government we would say that the difference in disposable income illustrates study what percentage is in is more regressive because of the impact that it has because you much less disposable income at your disposal in order to use to feed yourself and to take care of yourself.
And because of this we would say that based on the impact that that tax has any sort of a flat tax is going to have a regressive impact, even if you're staying the same percentage, what that impact is what really matters in the day to day lives of people that are paying his taxes as opposed to what percentage of their income they're losing because that impact is what affects whether or not they can afford to feed their children, whether or not they can afford to live in their homes, these types of things that have real world devastating impacts on people.
So why is a regressive tax bad within the regressive tax could only be just if people who are worse off use more government resources, but this is simply omit.
It sounds true, but it's not while yes, people that are more better worse off, get things like welfare government, infrastructure, market protections and national defense alternately more important to those who are wealthy because they profit off of things like those markets, no structures in ways that those who are poor do not for example, if you a business in which you sell copious amounts of goods on the market, those marked reductions are far much more valuable to you than any sort of welfare that anyone who's pours together.
We can you create a system where you need to spend more on welfare to support those whose money you're taking away at a higher clip anyway.
And this means that new tax revenue ends up being expended on the people that you're taking the money from anyway, we think that the end at that impact based taxes are better and therefore using a progressive percentage problem, the flat tax is more preferential because it means people are paying based on what they can afford and based on what they use not just on some sort of percentage that someone sets arbitrarily release reasons we should not introduce a flat tax.