We should ban human cloning.
So we think it's simply the case that there are a massive amount of risks that come with allowing human cloning that come with allowing people to clone themselves or for corporations to clone other people with very little games, acting come from this recognize that the process of cloning can still be tested under this model through other animals that you can still produce organs in a number of ways, in fact organ production, human organ production is already being done in a number of different ways to a number of different methods that don't involve human cloning, and we simply think that's the case that there's no real game.
So what I think that's the case, if you create human agents, usually treat document agent as such what that means is that if you were to create a clone than that cologne should be given the full rights of any other human agent simply by the nature of their humanity, just because they are a sin, the same genetic make up of another human being doesn't, mean that they can't internalize the harms that would be placed upon them, such as that other human being that doesn't mean that they don't have the right to their own autonomy, their own agency.
It doesn't mean that because they are derived from a method other than natural birth that they aren't still human serve the rights that come with that what this means is that any if you were to create a human clone that humans should be created as a new three individual.
But this is an incredibly costly process and given that the outcome of that, because the process would be essentially the same outcome of giving birth.
We simply don't see any massive benefit to doing this.
Maybe there are scientific advancements you can gain.
We don't see what scientific advancements you gain particular specifically to human cloning that you would be able to gain through learning about how cloning works in other organisms and other animals there's nothing about human biology that is so unique that we couldn't learn or get scientific breakthroughs to other methods of cloning, but will you do get is you don't create a new human agent when you do cloning to other species, we think their scientific knowledge cop, knowledge can be gained from cloning animals.
We simply don't think the massive cost of cloning, a human is worth the outcome of creating a new agent, but we do think is likely to be the case is that if you were to put this costume people would have some some sort of expectation of that clone person.
We think there are a number of ethical qualms that come with cloning.
The first is a property right to clone the question of who has property tree, cloned individual is something that we think is likely to rise up along with identity problems that come with that cloned the item you problems of the original person end of this clone knowing who they are and being able to relate to the world.
We think that that kind of psychological burden is unfair, not to mention the fact that there's now a property claim being contested between the original individual who has been cloned in probably the corporation of the lab that was the clone.
We think there's a potential for organ farms, which we think is incredibly problematic because if you were to create this high cost business of cloning human beings, we think it's likely that you want some sort of economic return on that, and we think every easy economic return is given the massive shortage in meat and the need for organ, donations weaving organ farms are likely in again, this would lead to human agents being stripped of their organs and used as a means to an end, something that we can see huge ethical problem and something that shouldn't up potentially be allowed.
We also think there's a potential for human for for humans to have their rights stripped.
We think there's a a massive potential that no matter what type of economic and you want to retreat from this that whatever clone is the result of this process is likely going to face massive stigmatization, massive harms to their identity and ultimately are likely to have their rights stripped the point in which there are no longer human, but that doesn't mean that these harms wouldn't gather on that person that doesn't mean that this person does this clone wouldn't, it internalize the harms of such practices and given that these practices are likely to arise from such a process of human cloning.
Cloning, we and we should cut it off at the head.
We think we should ban human cloning to pretend to prevent these things from ever rising.
And for these reasons we should ban human cloning.