We should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
So we have two main arguments.
They were gonna, make in this debate.
The first is about the usefulness of guantanamo bay.
And the second is about the problems that arise if we were to take this type of action and one of these two things combined outweigh any sort of argument in favor of the protections of people thing one time a day.
So firstly, on usefulness, so many people complain that this type of detention center goes against international law, it goes against united states laws about procedural law, right to trial right to trial by peers, all these types of things.
And so we deal with those arguments.
First about why we think the usefulness exists and why these laws to apply so on laws in the united states.
Firstly, it's, clearly the case that as these are not US citizens, they don't have the same rights and body within the constitution that are applied to them.
These are rights that are only guarantee to US citizens and therefore those arguments don't really come into play in this debate, but more importantly, on international law recognize that the state first has an obligation to its citizens well, international law and treaties that the trees are composed international law are just and are useful in things such as war and international cooperation, the state has a foremost obligation to protect its citizens and in keeping people on guantanamo bay.
These are people that are overwhelmingly dangerous actors who let's recognize you're dealing primarily with extremists who aren't going to respect the laws of war that our governing how we are all how we often treat them.
If these individuals aren't willing to reciprocate the obligations of those trees, so they are willing to reciprocate those obligations and the norms of international law, we think they are willing to world in which those same rights are not given to them because of this.
We think that any argument that's made about international law, making guantanamo bay a bad center, something that unjustly restricts, the rights of these individuals.
We think they have created that world through their extremist action.
And because of that are not deserving of these rights we it also recognizes useful something the thought that allows for the contain a very dangerous people even if not even if there is an obvious legal evidence because legal procedure in the proceedings that prove guilt in a court art, art always available to show that these people are guilty, there's often overwhelming evidence against these people in other regards.
And even if it is the case that these people are not always the guilty individuals are we believe they are given the fact that these people when they are guilty or like the individuals that are going to carry out incredibly damaging, incredibly violent acts, we think it is the obligation of the united states to take the risk to contain these individuals.
So second, we want to talk about the problems with will be so what do you think would happen if we were to take the so most of the people that are in guantanamo bay as I just pointed out are incredibly dangerous, which means if you would have a trial in public that probably become incredibly obvious target for violence, we think that extremists and other terrorist organizations would rally around that individual event to make some sort of statement to show the the flaws in the legal system in the united states to create some sort of propaganda moment.
We think that this is an incredibly obvious target.
We think would likely in involved individuals who are innocent people that are citizens of the state being hurt, certainly most prisons simply don't want to have these targets.
They can ensure the safety of these people when they are in prisons because of the high profile nature of them as criminals as extremists.
We think they're likely to have violence, put against them with in jail.
And we think that step prison simply don't want to take them and finally there's an obvious harm of returning them to their home country.
If you release them if you let them go back to their home countries allows him to go back to the activities that led to them being one town on the first place within that this ensures that there are more extremists in the world that are likely to take damaging acts of violent acts against united states citizens.
The job of the united states government is first and foremost to protect its citizens, and we believe that guantanamo bay does a better job, but that that if it were not to exist for these reasons, we should not close, we should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.