We should disband asia in the status quo AGN is a system of southeast asian nations organizing into a system that allows for economic progress growth in trade for the whole region allows for unification between the region and making economic and localized decisions.
We think that both the structure and the pragmatic outcomes of what we've seen from each and are not good and that it should be disbanded because of that.
Firstly, the structural flaws that make even the concept of this type of union problematic in the way that currently exists.
Firstly, it ties nations to the economic growth of others, which we think especially in developing countries like those in southeast asia is incredibly problematic.
Firstly, because these developing nations often have the most tumultuous economic, a condom use, which means that if one nation goes down, it's likely going to drag down the development of other nations.
And secondly, it means that you can have as much specialization and diversity in and what these countries are doing when they're all following similar labor standards out.
But more importantly, the method of making decisions only through consensus in the asia, which means that any big differences in changes that need to be made to political or economic decisions, which are likely to occur in an ever changing world that's based on a technological revolution that is changing what the markets look like on a day to day basis.
We think that this type of all key and saturated system in which every country needs to agree on what is best is only going to hold every country back it's going to make them less able to adapt to a changing environment, economic environment in the future, and we can do this only makes these countries more vulnerable to exploitation in the long run.
But the second problem is how asian actually speakers in the status quo, easy and services the front that allows countries to protect themselves from the human rights and labor abuses that exist for example, in the status quo, their massive human rights, abuses in places like myanmar.
And in other countries in southeast asia.
For example, a boat was being sent between two different countries in southeast asia that carried refugees from myanmar in recent in recent months in which no country was willing to take these people, which know country was going to take these people in and every country created this atmosphere and created an environment in which this type of practice was unacceptable further, actual slaughters in human rights, abuses real murders, real harms are praying to the people in these countries.
The governments of these on many of these countries are dictatorial nature and are impressing the people that exist in these regions when these countries close each other, all outsiders and allow themselves to focus within their own economic sector, their own political sector through the asia and makes these countries less susceptible to the influences of other voices, moderating forces such as the united states and the european union that may be allowed that may help protect people from these human rights abuses in the status quo.
We think that the best way to protect these people is to disband this network that allows for the protection of abuses as the existing status quo.
And we think that that is incredibly important that that is the most important because it ensures that people on the ground, the real people that are impacted by the economic policies of asia and are not being harmed in the process.
Finally on labor labor practices in these countries are controlled are also incredibly problematic.
It makes it because these are all a regional area makes it very difficult for labor to move from nation to nation when the labor standards in each country are so deplorable when people are able to move out of their country and I'm better labor standards across the across the border are able to move to any reasonable place to find better labor standards and allows every country to lower its labor standards, which not only harms the people that exist.
But also it decreases the level of productivity in these economies, which has a second secondary negative affect on these countries given that the system of asian itself is horribly bloated and that the impacts only allowed for abuses of the people.
We think we should disband asia.