We should not further exploit when power.
So what we think is very crucial missed a beat is to point out the start.
What the comparative in this round is we think that in the status quo often times different types of renewable energy resources, any free and open market compete for investments.
The reason for this is that not a whole because renewable energies are at this moment, not very profitable and it's not something that investors are looking to you really invested in the status quo.
So there are a limited amount of investors, and there are women amount of wonderful government funds that can go into renewable energy resources, other funder, going into also fuels and those types of energies.
And we don't think that this is really about whether or not we can get that type of revenue because we think obviously would be preferable if you could get that type of revenue in twin power, any renewable power.
But this is about if we're going to put our resources into a certain type of renewable energy should that type of a new opel energy, the wind power, because we think that when you're saying which which resources people should invest their money into when there's a necessary trade off, we need to talk about what is most efficient and most likely to come to market means I can actually affect real change and a wide variety of environments.
We simply don't think that wind power is the type of technology that will allow that to be the case.
We think that there are two better alternatives in regards to renewable energy sources that we should exploit instead of wind power given the fund abilities and the limits of spending in the status quo.
So firstly, we think solar power is immensely more preferable to win power.
There are few developments and solar power that are crucial to recognize first solar power is becoming increasingly more efficient because solar cells themselves are becoming more efficient, the technology that allows for these batteries the solar cell batteries to store their electricity, the lithium ion batteries are becoming more and more sophisticated, which means that the cost curve for producing solar power is much lower than that of wind powered simply a more way of storing and holding energy and it's more applicable to smaller scale.
So, whereas you can of wind farms of death different areas like oceans and do you know, prayer using fields in areas like a lot of wind use and just end up speeding to a factory or plant that disperses energy to like a small geographical area wears solar power, something that most homes are capable of on their own stops, getting the type of solar other type of sun right now with the current technology, solar power to fuel to fuel their house in their household needs for ninety percent of the time given that this is the case and given that it is a type of technology that isn't limited by a diet, the capability to have a certain amount of wind at your availability or an immense amount of infrastructure developed to allow these things to come to market in a way that is reasonable for the average consumer to take in.
We would say that solar power is immensely further advance, especially given that there are companies like solar city run by you on must that already have immense amounts of resources at their disposal and are already putting products on the market.
We think that this is the avenue we should go down in regards to renewable resources.
The other alternative that we think is preferable, is nuclear energy, recognizing the status quo that nuclear energy is immensely underfunded and immensely over feared because of certain instances in which nuclear power plants of melted down but her the amount of nuclear energy there actually your nuclear accidents in there are from fossil fuels and the potential for nuclear energy is much more massive than any type of other energy that wind power than fossil fuels and solar power can be given that this is the case we think that if you're going to invest in something that isn't already dominant on the market like solar power, if you're going to invest in new technologies in development of new technologies, we think that nuclear power has more potential than when power.
We think both alternatives are preferable to wind power.
And for these reasons we should not further exploit when power.