All postings should be a criminal offense.
Now obviously in this debate, we're, not talking about holding beliefs about holocaust, denial, rather about propagating or promulgating those beliefs throughout society, whether this is publicly saying these things publishing things that preach these types of ideas, etcetera, we said we would ban and criminalized those types of things.
So first, we talk about when we restrict speech because we think we do it all the time the status quo justifiable reasons.
So firstly, we restrict speech when it is harmful to people's identity.
So this is distinct from speech that simply make someone feel uncomfortable or make someone feel sad brother.
This is speech that directly targets individuals because of your vocal bowl or unchangeable aspect of who they are so things like he crimes things like racists, slurs against minority communities, not that states, which are criminalize things like taking action that specifically target minority and discriminated against communities.
So we restrict these things in the status quo because we don't think you have a right to spread those types of heated words.
We think the freedom speech exists in order to ensure that we can have an open marketplace of ideas that allows for increased discourse and increase self expression.
But when you screeched when you spread these types of ideas, things like holocaust, denial, you a race, the experiences of an entire group of people of the jewish population and experience that shaped their identity as a culture that is something that was an attack on their existence and it's something that is a turning point in human history, and that needs to be recognized, we think that spreading these types of ideas undermines their identity and old and also serves to undermine the marketplace of ideas, the ability for people to express themselves, which means that this is an instance in which you can criminalize and therefore restrict speech.
The second reason that we can restrict speech is what encourages bad social behavior so recognize that holocaust, denial, doesn't exist in a vacuum.
Those that did not the holocaust are also often parts of things like neo nazi and fascist organizations, things that spread and preach anti semitism.
We think that all these ideas are unacceptable within our society to continue to demonizing a group of people.
No matter what group of people with the minority group with TP a jewish community is unacceptable in our society, all these people of the equal right to live a peaceful and prosperous life as anyone else and two and two hive, holocaust, denial and to continue from there to teach things like harm against the jewish people and to because of holocaust denial so that their wires about these types of things that there's a vast jewish conspiracy, which is what comes along with things like this.
We think that that is unacceptable when we breeds more violence against this group of people that's already suffered far too much violence over the course of their history.
So the second reason that we think that we should that in this particular instance, we should make all costs not a criminal offense is because to deny the holocaust into a race history creates a slippery slope in which we begin to forget the lessons of the holocaust.
We think that the holocaust as a turning point in human history, not because it was a genocide, but because it was a nearly universally recognized and condemned genocide it's, seven idea of what is unacceptable in a society, and we think that to undermine the whole costs by denying its existence, undermines the prohibitions that we have asked societies on that idea.
And while genocide as occurred since the holocaust will likely occur again, we think that nasty minimization of the holocaust gives us reason to interfere in and break sovereign states US sovereignty and ensure that people are going to be protected.
We think that that is of the utmost importance that we do not allow the holocaust or in some is a genocide to occur in the future, and is this undermines our ability to do that and also violates the entire reason we have freedom of speech by harming other and visuals.
We think that holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.