We should not legalize same sex marriage, so we want to be very clear in this debate, we're fine with allowing for civil partnerships between a same sex couple were fine with giving same sex couples equal rights in legal and illegal round, equal protections, visitation rights, the ability to raise children together.
We don't think that same sex couples should be barred from starting a family together and given the legal recognition that such a family in such a structure, deserves to be granted with what we would say, principally is that the state itself should not be involved in marriage at any level.
We would say that marriage is historically eight, patriarchal and religious tradition that is firstly, an outdated means of giving away a woman to a man in for for a property exchange, but more importantly, it's an inherently religious service recognize that for the vast majority of history, the state didn't come together to wed two groups of people.
It was churches.
It was religious institutions that would do these things.
And we think that that is where marriage should be.
We think it's fine to have civil partnerships in at the state level.
We think it's fine for individuals to can join their assets in the way the marriage license you all those legal aspects of marriage can be done without giving it away for marriage without giving a thought religious connotation that we think is so problematic in the status quo and is the real reason that people are denied same sex.
Couples are denied access to this thing in the status quo, but even if it seems he'd for, we think that religions should have the freedom to do what they see as necessary to follow their faith as long as it doesn't allow for people to have a lower level or lower quality of life.
And we think that if you allow same sex couples to access the same legal protections that a married couple otherwise would we don't think that there's a major to traction to same sex couples as far as their quality of life is concerned so we've been religious freedoms.
Religion allows if you allow for religious interference in this instance in this in this case, and we think it will inevitably lead to future marginalization of religious communities, we think that you will ultimately going to get is that you have a state that is willing to back religions that backed the vast majority of individuals not marginal religion, some marginal communities are likely to be stamped out.
We think that that's problematic because we think that faith and religion are crucial to one's identity, they not only give you an understanding of your place in the world and the afterlife and all these things, but they also give you moral power.
They give you the moral, the moral ideas that you hold with you in your life and they allow you to make decisions in difficult situations.
All these things are crucial and yes, well, some of these things may be based on outdated notions that liberals don't agree with.
We don't think that it means that people don't receive value from these things in that they're inherently problematic.
We think that we think that if a faith doesn't allow this type of thing, you shouldn't force them to do these things, we think that the only legitimacy that the government has as far as dictating religions is that it forces religious and individuals in the public sphere to treat other individuals with an equal amount of respect as they would twin another religious individual.
We don't think that that amount of respect in that in order to achieve that amount of respect you necessarily need to ensure that people are able to have the same sex marriage.
We think that giving them equal legal and political accountability, equal political rights and equal recognition, even if you don't put the name of marriage onto it creates a balance between the religious freedom that these institutions deserve to have the protections that same sex couples also need to have.
And for these reasons we should not be allies, same sex marriage.