We should legalize click here.
So we want to recognize that we can use a connotation associated with it that is often has to do with the coercion of individuals, specifically women to marry one man and like a cult situation or things of this nature, we just want to say that we believe that in legalizing polygamy, there are still checks that can be put in place to ensure that, for example, people that are under a certain age are not able to do this to ensure that people that are being coerced or not forced into doing this that you can and sure as the state that proper steps are taken to ensure that people are not coerced into doing this.
So in that respect, we think that it is the fundamental right of people to see me choose to consent into a loving relationship in that in denying the access to polygamous relationships and but legitimacy of pulled in this relationship you denied the right to people consenting adults to love one another in the way they see fit.
Okay, so first we're, not talk about balls broadly and then we're gonna talk about why clean itself is not problematic.
Okay, so we think that criminalization should not be based on the enforcement of moral norms and of particular attitudes we think that the reason I click me became legal in the first place is because there is an association of polygamy well certain bad moral actors and then asked such individuals felt the need to enforce their own moral systems on to individuals, you don't think this is a proper justification for inhabiting someone's freedom within that law should only be constructed in order to maximize freedom.
And what this means is that law should be constructed in so far as if someone is taking an action that violates another individual's freedom that restricts their ability to free.
We do as they see fit in a meaningful way.
We think that it is justified in making such an action legal in certain circumstances.
But in the case of polygamy, we see no such way in which a polygamous relationship or polygamous marriage in any way, undermines the for of other individuals.
If I in two other people love each other and leave that we love each other and consent to being in that type of relationship, we see no way in which our love has any sort of impact on other individuals.
If there's some sort of emotional repercussions that other individuals experience, it is not the job of government to ensure that people are always comfortable with the actions of all other individuals or otherwise we would have to criminalize almost every action that individual could feasibly take because someone is going to be is going to find those actions repugnant.
We think that polygamy that love cannot be quantified into a simple idea that one person loves another person and that love is reciprocal in nature.
We don't think that love can be restrained to traditional marriage ideals into the idea that it could only be between two consenting individuals.
We think that love is much more broad than that, and that in criminalizing polygamy in the status quo we did not have that love has legitimate.
We tell people that their relationship is improperly denies people because they have a motional attachments to more than one individual.
We don't think there's any justification for this in so far as people who are in these polygamous relationships do not harm other individuals as such.
We believe that it is essential that the state does not construct laws on the basis of emotional or moral repugnance, but simply on the basis of insuring the maximal freedom of its citizenry.
And for these reasons we believe we should legalize collectively.