Abstinence only sex education should not be mandatory.
So in this debate, we think that's important to recognize that the whole purpose of having sex education should be for young people to learn how to be safe when having sexual intercourse to understand how to be seeking to protect themselves from the potentiality of sexually transmitted diseases or an unwanted pregnancy, both of which can be long term harm to the individual and can be incredibly traumatic, whether it results in someone having a disease that they have to bear with a child that they didn't want or the possibility of having to get an abortion, all of which can be incredibly traumatic.
We think that people are going to have sex teenagers, young people are going to have sex with or without sex with, or without this type of sex education.
We don't think that preaching abstinence only is going to be effective in stopping sacks, and we can see this in here, clean the fact that in places in the united states in which abstinence only sex education is the only thing that is allowed.
There are highest rates of unwanted.
Teen pregnancies it's because individual students especially are not prone to listen to the moral teaching of teachers in their classroom, especially if they're not being taught the same things by their parents, or maybe additionally when it's compounded by the same preaching, they see at home regardless, we think that given the absence only sex education is not effective in resulting in having people that practice abstinence only we think that it's important that you recognize the fact that people are going to have sexual intercourse that they're going to be sexually active in that you respond to it.
So that is our main argument.
So why do we think that any other type of sexual education is going to be more effective.
So we think that any other type of sexual education is one less likely to result in unwanted pregnancies because if you teach people how to use condoms, if you teach people about the pure potentiality for getting a diaphragm over getting a birth control or the variety of other types of contraceptive better they'll, we think that these are things I can actually be very enlightening to people most people that are starting to have sex don't know how to properly use a condom, and they don't know about the effectiveness of other types of birth control or the rates of effectiveness when you're on knowledgeable about these things you tend to learn from sources that are less reputable.
Some people learn about sex porn other people learn about it too older siblings, but these are not reputable sources.
You can it's much preferable to have someone that has knowledge of sack, the vast knowledge of contraceptive knowledge of stds these types of things to teach real information to students so they can make truly informed decisions so they can really decide whether or not they're willing to take on the risks of these things when they choose to have sex.
So we think that having the visuals were actually informed is more likely to result in a decline in stds and unwanted pregnancies, which are obviously problematic.
So what do you think the government has an obligation to inform first, we think that the government has a recognized responsibility to educate this is seen in the fact that nearly every state has some sort of public education system for students, we don't think that the fact that we're talking about sex and not about math makes it any different that they're still responsibility to educate given that both are crucial to a functioning adult second reading that parents are simply not qualified in the same way that students often don't know that much about contraceptive in these types of things.
Parents are often uninformed, anyone parents aren't formed there often on like me to tell you six their children for a variety of reasons.
And finally we don't think that religion is impeded by knowledge of contraceptive, just because you say the word condom doesn't mean that it violates the religious freedom of any person it doesn't mean that you're endorsing children having underage sex doesn't mean that you can't include the idea of abstinence intersects education just beams of the government is fulfilling its responsibility to educate and fulfilling its responsibility to keep its citizens safe.
And for these reasons abstinence only sex education should not be mandatory.