We should adopt atheism.
So in this round, we're gonna, say that individuals on balance should be atheists and that as a society, we should lean towards a society that embraces atheism and goes against religion.
Okay, so a couple of reasons why we think we should adopt atheism.
The first is based on logic.
So we would say that of religious beliefs are antithetical to logic for a few reasons.
The first is that religious beliefs openly denounce, are openly accept the fact that the beliefs they hold are not based on any sort of factual understanding it's based on a leap of faith that individuals take based on some assorted arguments made within within within religious tax, but from there of faith a leap of faith in the god that they choose to believe in it isn't out, word acceptance that these types of leaps of faith, those that go directly against logic are acceptable within the society.
We think that when individuals choose to adopt these religious beliefs ultimately leads to a situation which individuals are more prone to be opted to buy into information without any sort of logical back in and we think this is problematic within society, we think in the status quo we are in a society where information is so dispersed and so disseminated on to people that there is a massive problem with misinformation in people's inability to check themselves.
We think that religion does not breed in and of itself skeptical individuals and that's got to individuals are necessary and a time like today where information and misinformation is becoming so much more out would be out would be open and so much more prevalent within our society.
So we think that religion does not allowing the vigils to become skeptical in fact, read within individuals an idea that they should buy into the information that they believe and they feel to be correct buying into information based on feeling rather than logic.
And rather than fact we think this is the type of world that is bred in the status quo which individuals vote against their interests interest in which individuals denounced science in places like the united dates by denouncing global warming because it doesn't feel like it is correct to them.
We think that that type of understanding that type of way of thinking that is spread by religion is problematic and should be discarded.
Finally, we think that religion but on balance has been a negative thing with in human history, recognize that there's a massive history of conflict associated with all types of religion, whether this is religions warning against each other or people using religion as a justification for types of colonization that we've seen throughout the world enslavement these types of things, the systems of oppression were justified on religious basis and these types of systems repression, while not as problematic still exist in the status quo with discrimination against minority groups, patriarchal oppression of women and discrimination against LGBT q, people all justified under religious beliefs.
We think that these types of backward notions based again on feelings and beliefs rather than a logical understandings of how we should treat our fellow man.
These are problematic aspects of religion that society needs to be willing to discard.
We also think that religion pushes morality on individuals in a way that is unacceptable.
We think that morality as a construct a something that individuals and society should be able to construct based on what is necessary for their times, but that religion pushes all time morality onto a modern society that is advancing far faster than that religion ever could have predicted or ever put a plan for.
We think that these types of values, while in part are still important in part or acceptable use of the values that are going to be discarded when individuals by large switched atheism but rather the types of discriminatory by sees that come with religion and the type of ecological thinking that comes with religion, we think these things are discarded when you embrace atheism and that's why we should adopt atheism.