All fighting should not be that in this round, we're going to make two arguments.
The first is that we would say the animals do not have rights, and they certainly don't have rights to the extent that protects them from being killed.
And the second is that people should be allowed to take risks in that risk aversion and trying to maximize the length of one's life is not the only metric of a good life lived.
Okay, so on animals and animal rights, we would say that right rather than being some with you real thing that is defined by the universe around us are rather just a social construct made by him at that.
When we came together in societies, there were certain ideas in certain protections that people viewed as necessary in order for them to have a reasonably good livelihood.
And those are what we choose to dean has rights animals are simply not a part of this construct they're, not something that we take into account when we choose what are the preferences that people would hold for example, we don't think of what the preferences of a pick aren't try to give that paid a certain degree of control over how we form the system of rights we formed with the idea of what humans need in mind, and we also have certain tenants that make those rights capable being upheld, the animals, cannot respect and therefore extending rights those animals doesn't make sense.
The first is that animals cannot internalize the value of rights part of rights being part of the value of rights themselves is not the idea that it allows you to have this protection to have these freedoms but to know that you have those freedoms and to make choices for yourself and to make decisions for your life and your future with those protections in mind.
For example, I know that I've the right to reasonable trial trial by jury of my peers and a right to be protected in court.
All these types of things these rights allow me to make decisions with the idea that I won't be unjustly prosecuted for taking some sort of act that the government may not entirely approve of, but something that isn't legal.
And this allows me to make choices in the future based on that understanding animals don't have this ability in there for much of the value of rights go away.
Secondly, and most importantly, animals, cannot reciprocate, those rights, the only way that rights have power within society is one all of us choose to reciprocate those obligations on those rights on to those around us.
The reason that the right to lifers become so valuable is because most of the vast majority of people choose to acknowledge that that right is important and respect that claim to rights from other people, I choose not to kill others in part because I do not want to set up a norm system where people could kill me.
Look at the end of the day bullfighting kills a bowl instruct the more entertaining way than the slaughter house, but it the end result is the exact same, and if you think that the slaughter houses, okay, if you think that animals can be slaughtered to feed people, and if you think that the system of rights that we have requires reciprocation to be upheld, clearly the extend of animal rights that banning bullfighting would require do not exist and should not exist.
Okay, so now let's talk about the safety of people.
Firstly, it's simply not that dangerous to be a bull fighter it's very rare for a bull fighter to die or be seriously injured while doing this task, and if they do harm themselves, this is the risk they can take on without third party harms.
So my choice to make a risky decision on my behalf to be a bull fighter doesn't directly harm anyone else in my general vicinity, it's, not setting up a rest on to other people that couldn't consent and that risk given that I am able to fully consent and fully with knowledge that I could be harmed choose to be a bull fighter.
We think that it is fair to seek out thrilled to see that excitement to seek out a cultural practice rather than something to be simply choosing to be maximally risk averse, which is what the protectionism of this idea, the protectionism of this band would demand.
It is not the case that animals hold the rights that require this to be banned is not the case that humans need to have this decision made for them and that life must be maximizing all terms for these reasons, bullfighting should not be banned.