We should not introduce goal line technology.
So I think what's important for framing the discussion.
This debate is to recognize what sport is actually about because in oftentimes, when people talk about sports, especially span fans of sports there's often discussion of values like valor and honor and tradition and the spirit of athletics in competition, but recognize that sport, whether it's soccer, whether it's basketball or any or baseball or any type of sport, these are all intrinsically about entertainment, whether it's at a look at a young age, the entertainment of playing the sport, young, the entertainment of growing for the sport.
But as far as the full monty is far as professionals, it is solely about the entertainment that you can bring to fans that the sport of soccer is exists in order to make money for the owners of the team to make money for the players to make money for all the people involved in the creation of the product on the field, and that what matters when making this decision is what is going to be the best for fan.
So when people make claims about how one technology allows for more accuracy and things like that that is not intrinsically valuable unless you can explain why it's valuable to the fans, why gives a better fan experience.
So we have three reasons why we think that it's less likely lead to a good fan experience.
And why we should introduce goal line technology based on that means first is that it slows down the game, reckless and soccer delay.
You simply do not exist.
And in the same way that they exist in other sports that soccer is largely about the flow of the game about setting up, please about the back and forth, and about ensuring that you can that there's some sort of a flow in a rhythm to watching the game.
We think that goal line, technology is more likely to be invasive in soccer than it is in any other sport that it's that the flow of soccer, the flow of the game is so much more important to me entertainment to the product that you see when you're watching a game on the pitch than it is in almost any other sport in society.
And given that this is the case with what's likely to happen is that fans are less likely to watch the product on the field, even if they're not less likely to fall the sport generally they're less likely to actually give the views on this on TV and on the internet that attracts that provides ad revenue for these types of sports and would not exist.
We think that you're likely to get the downfall of the in or not the downfall of the industry of sport but you're less likely to get revenue for the sport and that's bad for all actors involved with the sport.
Suddenly it removes faith in referees, so we can balance you it's a goal line, technology, you're less likely to have people have faith in referees because it's a signaling affected if you introduce this type of technology now means that there's some sort of reason that you think that referees are not sufficient in doing their job and yes, it is the case that obviously voyeurs can see whether or not restaurant when they can like look at the replay five seconds after and yes, sometimes rest are wrong.
But when you do this type of thing, you say no that you think rafts a wrong so often that they need to have this type of thing that interrupts the flow of the game that literally stops the game for a number of minutes, so they can go and watch one more time or number of times what happened right in front of them given that that's the case in that they are the trade offs of interrupting the flow of the game.
We simply think you shouldn't send that signal to fans.
Finally, we think that there is honestly a type of bonding that occurs in doing referees including officials when they get something wrong.
We think that it's fans you experience the struggle of the team when there is a mistake that happens on the field in the referee end of the game come closer to the people on the field views.
You can empathize with what they're going through they're struggling to win a game.
And in the moment, they've been stripped of something that a referee is wrong about that allows you to connect with the people in the field and not to the people in the stands to bond.
And yes, it may mean that you get the less accurate reflection of the school on the field, but it provides a more community, oriented feel to the game, which is less like which is more likely to attract people to keep following the game, an increase revenue it's, ultimately more likely to be entertaining for people who interact with the sport.
And for these reasons we should not introduce goal line technology.