We should introduce a flat tax in the status quo.
The majority of income taxes in western liberal democracies are progressive taxes that disproportionately tax wealthy earners and take their money, even though they're the people that are least likely to take government services for this reason.
We would propose that the states are that states introduce an income tax that is a flat tax that ensures that all people that are capable of paying taxes were not currently many, a minimum earnings limit that allows you to have a taxable income because we think that certain people simply cannot pay taxes because of the situation they're in but instances in which people can afford to pay taxes all people have to pay the same proportion of their income into the government.
So we think that it's essential that this occurs because recognize that all individuals are exist under coercive apparatus of the state of matter how wealthy one is or how poor one is all people have been forced into the state by circumstances of where they were born, or because of where they had to go to live for jobs or other types of social reasons no one entirely freely chooses to be within the state and even if they did the state cannot simply because of consent shoes to abuse its people, the state can only be justified can only exist in the just weigh it serves to benefit all of its people.
This means that the state doesn't equal burden to all citizens even of certain citizens for their own free power and capabilities are able to earn more within the state apparatus than other individuals.
What we think this means is that when you have other systems of taxation, such as a progressive tax, you choose to ignore the claims of representation that certain members of your constituency habit, it means that you're saying that the freedom of property, the freedom to accumulate property and accumulate wealth is different.
Once you get richard says that the humanity and the claims you have to ownership are diluted when you are a more wealthy human being and it's one porn to recognize that the vast majority of wealthy individuals in western liberal democracies are not individuals that are taking the types of social benefits that taxes go to pay.
They pay into certain things that they're simply never going to use things like welfare benefits, things like social security.
These are things that wealthy the visuals are forced to pay into but gained little benefit from.
Yes, it's true, that these individuals can benefit from infrastructure, protection for the army.
All these things just as everyone else does.
But it is the case of these individuals simply are not getting as much out of the government directly as poor individuals are what this means is that it is unfair, principally to force these people to pay more and that when you have progressive taxes, it allows for drastic spending to take place because it and because constituencies and the base of the people in the public know that they will not be the ones that have to bear the burden, the spending burden that increased government spending costs we think that if you're going to instrument no new government programs, you're gonna, play place more course of power into state and if you're going to ensure that the state is more capable of taking from the people within the state and stealing the property that they have earned, it is important that all people there, the ramifications of this equally yes, it is the case that lasted less wealthy individuals have less disposable income at their at their disposal.
But this doesn't mean that their claims to ownership change because of the quantity of ownership that you have rather claims of ownership matter because of the importance of valuing property and a broad and principled manner.
We think that flat taxes do the best job of representing that in flat taxes, do the best job of ensuring that not only to all people bear the same burden.
But all people are given the same level of right to property as anyone else in the status quo there's, a system that allows spending to run wild in the government level with the burden being pushed dramatically on a small segment of society that burden isn't fair given the responsibility of the state has to all citizens and the conception of the state serves to serve exist to serve all given this.
We should introduce a flat tax.