We should not legalize ivory trade in the status quo.
There is an issue, a major issue that faces, rhinos, elephants, a different species in that many elephant rhino species are going extinct.
The reason for this is that ivory is an incredibly valuable asset and credibly valuable resource in many countries scene for both uses for medical uses of different types and different sort of homeopathic remedies, but also just for the value of the material itself for jewelry and things like this.
So ivory is incredibly valuable in the world market and is led to a dramatic decline in elephant, rhino populations, which is actually very important for those species in particular use.
The breeding curious, I know, elephants is a very long time and for rhinos to similarly long, the jazz station, it takes a long time for populations of these types of species grow back.
So when you species are endangered, it makes it even more likely that they go extinct in the future.
So firstly, we're gonna, talk about animal rights and white out yet animals deserve rights and why and why this is so crucial about legalizing our free trade, why would be bad for those respects so what animals deserve right so we can order for rights to be effective, they need to be objective that is in order for a system of rights to be coherent and to protect in a way that is unbiased innocent perspective idol, which means it protects broadly, no matter what the perspective is that you're taking it allows that we can make objective judgments about right and wrong.
In order for this to be to be the case there needs to be some sort of foundation on which these rights exist and it can simply be commanded the unless we give good reasons why he manages to line that needs to be drawn for giving rights, but we think that this is rather a rather subjective in that were only giving it to humans because we are humans there isn't on any other basis besides that we think that a much better reason to give rights is on the basis of pain and pleasure.
The reason for this is that right ultimately come down to trying to minimize pain and then act more pleasure when we talk about rights to life rights to speech right to bodily autonomy, all these are for reasons of trying to minimize pain when you get to the very bottom of it, when you ask why is it important to protect these rights, you enter into an infinite regress of answers until it comes to that simple point given that that's what we're trying to do with rights.
We should give it on the basis of whether or not these things can feel pain and pleasure.
And in the instance of animals that produce ivory, the answer is resoundingly.
Yes, these animals can not only experience pain or pleasure, but also of human like emotions.
They can experience sadness.
They can know that a threat is coming and respond to it.
They can experience here all these types of things that we would say are human are ex experiences and emotions that these animals can have.
So even if you think that pete enclosure isn't the basis of you think it's consciousness or things like this, the ability to have human like contractions, these animals often form human like communities with hierarchies in different types of social understandings between groups even if they're not advanced.
So we clearly think that animals especially elephants and rhinos, advanced intelligent animals deserve rights.
The problem with this is that if you legalize the ivory trade, you are almost certainly going to ensure that there's an expansion hunting when it's legalized to hunt these animals when its request to trade these types of things, even if you don't legalize the hunting itself means that sport is going to become far more common and it's already very difficult to look at these are to observe and protect these animals from these things because of the wide areas in which these animals may roam and the ability for hunters to go undetected, it's difficult to regulate these things and not when the black market can operate in the open.
It means that it's easier to get these types of these types of goods.
But also means that there's a greater demand for these good.
So even if it can be better observe to better monitor gets you bring into a legal market.
It means that the demands of these goods is going to go up so dramatically that you're almost certainly going to see at hunters and cultures attacked these these animals, new numbers given that these animals deserve the right to life based on the principles of pain and pleasure, we don't think that you should legalize the ivory trade because would ultimately lead almost certainly to their extinction and given all this, we should not legalize the ivory trade.