We should abolish anti social behavior orders anti social behavior orders orders that courts are able to pass upon individuals in towards in which individuals express what are known as anti social behaviors are probably making your cycle outside of social norms that these individuals can be publicly shamed and ensures that these individuals in certain cases can be prohibited from hating these ways this can be anything from breaking local ordinances about sound to how you behave in a public group and using vulgar language, things like this things that go outside of norms of of of society.
So we think there are two reasons why you should abolish ESPN's the first is that law should exist to protect freedom, and we think that this goes directly against that claim.
Firstly, we think that society is structured in such a way where individuals are not mutually able to opt into the society and the legal system, they're born to individuals are often born in the country where they'll spend their entire lives and never have a choice of where they were born they're bred within that society to live within that society's laws and the individual has very little control over the laws in which they're governed by so even if it isn't the vast majority of individuals don't get to have the stand and how they make these laws outside of your minor league through voting, they don't understand how these laws are enforced.
They don't understands over who was making his lost someone this way we think that law law by the state is you should only exist in order to protect freedom because as individuals exist within the state is already a man in a man's burden upon their personal freedom, it already prohibits them without their consent from expressing that freedom and therefore, in order to make sure that that status justin, those laws are just those law should only refer act reflect necessary restraints that ensure that freedom is maximized for the whole.
So we think that these things simply do not fall under that.
We think that individuals who expressed anti social behaviors not doing things broadly that are going to prohibit other individuals from pursuing their freedom.
They may be things that irk other individuals.
There may be things that are bothersome to certain people.
But we think that teaching social behaviors, social norms is not the job of law it's the job of society it's the job of the community in which people arranged in even if someone is doing something that may be perceived as a nuisance one, this doesn't, this doesn't mean that that is necessarily warranting some sort of public punishment or public shaming into it means of that society has failed in other steps against that society has failed improperly teaching these individuals, the social norms.
So the second problem that we have and anti social behavior since even if you don't think that the law itself is necessarily bad, but it's banning things that are necessarily bad, we think the way the law exists now is not acceptable.
So the way that the law exists now has very little clarity, which we think is necessary in order for people to have a trust law when we read by this is that anti social behaviors are understood very broadly.
So these don't have certain particular behaviors will tie punishments to them, which means that people can't be fully knowledgeable that they're breaking the law when they do it, you can't know that you're violating anti social behavior orders because the laws that determine what these things are are largely discretionary up to judgments of courts and groups like this.
Because this is the case we don't think that this law can be fair.
If one does not have man's rare or the understanding that when they're committing an act, it is one that is within one time and against the law.
We don't think that it's fair that those people can be punished.
If you never knew that such an action could possibly result in the punishment that you are facing, we don't think it's fair society to push that punishment.
So even if you were to have these type of anti social behavior orders meeting would be preferable to have a system of laws that reflect very specific behaviors and very specific prohibitions.
So either way even if you believe that these anti social behavior orders are good in theory that it restricts actions in a positive way, they need to be done entirely different matter.
But further, we don't do that these justifications are truly don't.
Think he's pretty prohibitions are fair.
And for this reason we should abolish anti social behavior orders.