We should not legalize ivory trade in this debate, we're gonna, make two brought arguments that are strongly connected.
The first is about animal rights while we think that animal rights do exist and what they ought to exist in the second set of arguments about why legalizing the ivory trade would violate those rights would be an immoral act, expand harm to animals that should be protected might so on animal rights, we think that rights need to be based on some sort of objective standard in order to be prescriptive.
We mean, by this is that if rights or something that you can just change based on your perspective or change based on your subjective preference than these rights don't have any strong binding power in order for these rights to be bonding that need to be based on something that's objective, something that isn't based on person from one person to the next.
But something that remains constant throughout all actors that the rights apply to the way that we do this in reality is by weighing pain versus pleasure, the way that we ascribe rights as we find something that provides an immense amount of pain to an individual or management of pain to something and we make it so that there's a right that prevents stop him from being described in that pain.
And because I paid would so totally outweigh any sort of pleasure that could come from that.
And so we should describe rights based on those who experience pain and pleasure.
This means that animals specifically elephants that the ivory is coming from should be covered under our system of rights why this is the case because we choose a different standard than we're doing so arbitrarily so that we can exclude animals when the fact of how we describe rights is based on this principle, this principle that we should minimize pain and maximize pleasure, those rights should be ascribed and prescribed onto also beings that can feel pain and pleasure, hiring requires the hunting and maiming of elephants causing an immense amount of pain.
We think the right to life is a basic right and something that even if you don't believe that animals should have full rights, this is our like they should have and any distinction to work around this would be arbitrary.
So let's talk about how this law expands harm to animals.
Legalizing the ivory trade, inevitably leads to increased desire for it ivory already has a precious reputation there's already an immense black market that exists in regard to ivory.
We think that if you make it legal, you make it easier for people to sell it to to put it out on the open market and to make a profit off of it they're also much more likely to go and become poachers or to hire poachers to get hard ivory for them or poachers are just going to spring up on their own regardless.
We think that when you make when you make it easier to sell when you make it much easier to find a market for consumers, we make it much easier to distribute to the market when you make it much easier to have possession of ivory in the first place all things that are made it very difficult because of the ivory laws that exist in the status quo you make the whole market, larger more hunters and poachers go after these animals because business is just more lucrative.
This is likely to lead to extinction of elephants in the status quo elephants are already a breed that is in the endangered species list and all things don't bear enough children every year they have long just station here, it's only bear one or two to at any given time.
This means that if you increase the hunting numbers of elephants you're very likely to get to a point where they become extinct, because you simply cannot replace them in the environment, quickly enough, we think this is clearly a moral.
This law only considers human short term utility over the long term utility of elephants, because those elephants can feel pain and feel pleasure.
They deserve to have their rights respected for these reasons we should not legalize ivory trade.