I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce goal line, technology and football games, two independent points.
First is the human element that is associated with the status quo.
We think that sports in general have a disturbing trend that they're moving towards in adopting technology to replace the roles of humans.
This is problematic a because we think that a significant portion of why we enjoy sports in general has to do with that human element of it that is the impressiveness of seeing human beings achieve individual feats.
And we think that it extends as well to the refereeing that this is something that we care about having that human connection with, but be because we think that a lot of decisions that are made in football and other sports have a sense of a certain context associated with up that is that there is a need to make subjective decisions on individual things.
And that when you introduce machines into the sports on you lose that capacity to make contextual decisions from a human perspective, armed with specific regard to goals in football on, you know, we think that there are different situations in which jobs you know, the computer technology can fail to appropriately record whether an article is made based on essentially the parameters that are initially fed to the machine.
This is a problem that for two reasons one, we think that it sets a trend in football towards up machine recording in general.
So I think even if you don't believe that goal line, technology is specifically abuse and abuse we think that this sets in motion a slippery slope of moving towards more machine based recording and decision making in sports that is less capable of often accounting for the context of a specific action.
But secondly, we think that it's a problem because some because there is it uses that are going to happen in real time, essentially they you won't know the machine has an intrinsic issue with it until that issue arises in it makes that mistake.
And because of the nature of the way the football works, you can go back on the decision after it's been made if the calls but made that the call was made and you've made that decision for goal line technology to supplant the role of the referee in that scenario given that we think that it least at the beginning there are inevitably going to be faulty calls because the machine will essentially be tested out in real time, an actual games where this faulty decisions will essentially become law.
Our second independent point is hacking, so we think that out it obviously there are some arguments the coverings forward about on the subjective miss, and potentially even corruption amongst referee is largely on.
We think that this is a fairly silly referees are generally hired by the league are fairly objective on the problem with goal line technology that is two fold.
The first is that it is computer ron, and as such it is subject to hacking on sports fans care very deeply about the outcome of games, and we don't think it's on, you know, hard to imagine somebody, you know, making that decision to actively tamper with this technology in an effort to benefit their own team.
But beyond this, we think that actually the goal line technology is often managed in house through technology house that individual stadiums and as such on teams themselves can actually manipulate this technology with relative ease that then opens a significantly easier door for corruption and up problems within this technology that we think mitigates the usefulness of this certainly in different defining accuracy, but also in terms of the fairness that gulf touts proud to oppose.