I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should disband NATO, our first independent point is that it provides a check against russia.
So specifically, we think that this is important because the like the way that russia acts in the I can modern geo political system is intensely aggressive, even at the USSR has collapsed, it is cease to exist.
There is still a lot of belligerence coming from that part of the world that is necessary to be back.
I think I'll give the recent annexation of crimean is certainly a key example of this, but even just sort of like broader aggression towards like other neighbors like meddling in george's elections, for example, has demonstrated that russia is on, you know, particularly problematic actor, this then in turn means that there is an active need to provide a check against that russian aggression.
They if you assume that this is like a actually dangerous actor on an international scale and that they are complicit in significant human rights, abuses that's already infringements within the region there's an active need to create a unified front against it gulf takes issue with the fact that they do is probably overkill.
We specifically think that NATO being over kill as its greatest attribute that is that the best way to ensure that russia doesn't count act even more aggressively is to actively deterrent from acting aggressively.
So if he was sensually just tell them look we've, got the fire power in the unified front to just beat you into the ground.
If you try anything really egregious, we think that that then means that russia is unlikely to try any extremely significant human rights abuses or sovereignty infringements or anything like that our second independent point is that NATO forces unity in military action amongst western nations.
So we think that this is really important because lee alternative to NATO is a world in which you kind of have like a bunch of loose cannons on the international system, particularly the US which is known for its on aggression and it's interventionist foreign policy is like, really important to keep in check NATO ensures that there's a voting bloc of countries that have to come together and make decisions sort of like the two heads are better than one scenario, type philosophy.
So we think that that when there are lots of army individual countries making these decisions together it's more likely that these are going to be cool level headed well thought out discussions rather than just tainted by some countries like personal nationalist bias or whatever, but beyond this, we think that there's importance to the unity in action because it ensures that there is consistency across country lines.
We think one of the worst ways to deal with an international crisis is an inconsistent response that is different countries respond differently, because then we think that aggressors can essentially played these countries off of one another.
Think of for example, the inconsistent responses to hitler's early aggression in world war, two, this is a prime example of when the geo political response was poor, and this enabled the aggressor to get away the way with some a lot of like territory grabbing and other aggressive moves that normally should not occurred as such that we think that a unified front ensures that there will be a consistent clear response that will mitigate the likelihood of something like this happening.
Our third point is that contrary to the assertions of side government needles, a fairly equitable organization, I think it's interesting that like gov tells you owe the system's really unfair to the united states because no one else is paying enough then also it's really unfair to everyone else because the united states is like the only place that actually benefits from this system like, obviously one of these just chance defies the other.
If only to united states benefits from this, then it's just like totally reasonable for the united states to pay a lot more money into the system that the other states at that point, then I think this system is pretty good at tracking the comparative value that these countries get out of the actual organization, proud to oppose.