I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban cosmetic surgery.
So first the model we wouldn't band things that are medically necessary or like reconstructive surgery.
So for example, if you were to get into a car crash were not in half of your faces, sheared off we're, not gonna, say that you can't get reconstructive surgery to fix that issue.
Likewise, if you need skin grafts to deal with some sort of life, threatening injury again, we are not going to say that you are not allowed to get that when we say cosmetic surgery, we mean strictly for non medical purposes that is someone is like, I think my nose is too big.
I want it to be smaller things like that.
The implementation method for the government is maybe not totally clear here, but I think generally were willing to just let the government have a bit of a sniff test on what does and does not constitute cosmetic.
So two independent points under the sound first is that societal beauty standards are generally enforced through cosmetic surgery in we deem the standards to be problematic.
And the second is that the expenditures that are made in the cosmetic surgery, industry are wasteful spending and damage the economy as a result of it on the first point that societal beauty standards our problem.
So I think generally speaking, it is an uncontroversial point to say that it is bad when there is like this socially defined idea of what does and does not constitute beauty there's, a good episode of the twilight zone that talks about this, how basically all of these things are inherently arbitrary that our notion of what constitutes being attractive is in and of itself ridiculous and not actually based me sort of objectivity.
I think a good example of this is actually just the fact that the standards were totally different a couple of decades ago, the problem then is that cosmetic surgery enforces these things so on the arbitrariness that alone is a reason why this is bad but intentionally we would say that these are things that are in force to saks and structures, but generally speaking, it is man decided what they find to be attractive in women modeling themselves in that image.
So we think that the existence of cosmetic surgery is a multi billion dollar industry designed to enforce patriarchal structures that if you were to ban it, it would be tougher to enforce the societal beauty standards, and it would be more difficult for men to have this world where they simply model women to their liking on the second point that the industry itself represents large amounts of wasted money.
I think it's pretty fair to say that this is a useless expenditure that generally speaking the things that we get out of spending this money are very like short term gains that even the best surgeons in the world can generally not do much that would dock combat like the ravages of age, and in the long term, these things probably are going to hold too much water.
So the alternatives though to this sort of like a luxury spending or things that generate growth to a much larger extent that missed us right, like if I decide I want like a nose job and I'm gonna, spend a couple like a million dollars on that, or whatever all the money just goes in the pocket like this one doctor.
If I decide I want to spend a million dollars on some other absurd thing like a handbag or whatever look really nice hand back.
I guess it is that money is in some capacity going to like workers that were in the factory where this thing was made public multiple people involved in this industry.
There is some amount of wealth being spread around through that industry that doesn't happen with plastic surgery because you're spending so much money on a thing that only benefits people who are already very wealthy, we preferred than the world were you band of this, and that luxury spending goes to things that it least have some sort of multiplier effect, proud to oppose.