I'm proud to stand proposition for today's motion that canada should be legalized, three dependent points first that it is a paternalistic policy to ban people from engaging in consensual actions.
Second that legalization will decrease the power and the harms of black markets.
And the third, the implementation of the status quo has racist undertones.
First on paternalism it's, important recognize that autonomy is a good in and of itself that is the fundamental right that we derive all others from the reason that we care about, for example, our right to life is because we have the ability to do things but that life so going off about them it's important that the bass line that we attribute all policies by is does this allow people to do things right.
The reason we don't like murder or stealing or things like that is because it limits other people's ability to act with in a way that actually makes their individual lives better.
So it's important, then that when there's not externalities, we allow people to just make decisions for themselves that they can consent in the heart.
They is so big and so it's important recognize them that if off gets up here, and it says that this is all harmful drug or do something that creates harm to the individual that's, not enough of a reason for you to vote for all it's important to recognize that the person has the right to engage in that action, I think it is a kind of point is the black markets in the status quo are extremely harmful.
So these exist already write things like cartels in mexico things like even just street dealers in some suburb exist already, and we crawled those out by legalizing asian because people prefer to buy in a market that has less risk you're less likely to be caught up in gang violence, you are less likely to be cheated out of your product because there's no regulatory body to oversee the person engaging in a transaction with you people burford operate the legal market if it's an option.
So what are the harms that of the black market that we get rid of by legalization three in the pendant first cartels in and of themselves create lots of violence when you have a black market, it is easy for powerful actors to grapple large shares of market, creating effective monopolies that they protect those monopolies by use of violence.
This leads to huge amounts of death.
It leads to mass amount of suffering.
Second, safety, regulations, it's important to note that like when you have the black market there's, no one able to come into a production plant and say, you're, not up to code you're, selling a product that is going to be harmful to people.
We should always prefer a world where you have that regulatory capacity to step in and say this is an unsafe product.
You are creating harmon to people by giving that product to them.
Third is access to children it's a lot easier for people that are probably not developmentally ready to consume this item like the people that are most likely to be harmed by it.
The people that have the least information available them to meetings we can send into it are most likely going to be reached by the black market.
The reason why this is true is that it's easy to crack down on the individual sellers that are going around age age of sail laws like, for example, with alcohol beat when you actually have a legal system that can be regulated when this is not the case with a black market it's.
This is why it's like easier for kids to get pot than it is for them to get alcohol.
So the people that are most vulnerable and are more likely to be subjected to harm in a world where the black market rules.
My third point is racism and how specifically the implementation of the current law is used as a tool of oppression primarily against african american communities is important recognize this isn't a law that applied equally is a law that is generally used to put large amounts of black men and to present and largely used as an excuse for other things.
Things like possession of small amounts of marijuana can become a front for engaging in a cry for a as a means of arresting someone for something fairly unrelated, something like a traffic stop, people will call for like search cars for drugs in order to justify the arrest things like that.
It is important to get rid of this tool that is used to put down black males in the status quo and open up like our laws in a way that is much more reasonable price propose.