I'm proud to stand in opposition at today's motion that boxing has to be bad.
So first, with regard to the model, I think it's important.
I recognize that it is within ops ground to say this is a thing that can be regulated.
This is the thing that we can actually take proactive steps to make safer because that's the trajectory of history, sports overtime have become safer things like football, for example, where you have to wear helmets now and it didn't used to be the case awhile ago, did like trajectory of history means that these things are going to become safer in the long term.
So I think you can like ignore a decent amount of government's arguments on face value was a result of that because the trajectory of history means that the harms that they talk about are more likely than not going to disappear in the long term, but absent that there's three in a pen points that I'd like to announce today first that this provides an opportunity for wealth and a positive mindset or opportune are optimistic mindset for minorities and other historically disadvantaged people who are able to take this as an opportunity to achieve some form of wealth.
Secondly that the violence it is demanded it zero some level, and as a result of this, it is unlikely that abolishing boxing is actually going to meaningfully saw for this title harm that they talk about.
And thirdly, that there is just a non zero pleasure from viewing that exist as a result of this that is worth voting on so with regard to the first argument that this provides a path to riches, they tell you onsite government that this is not a thing really that like pans out most of the time for people who participate in boxing that it is a misleading claim that people are brought down this path sorting through things on that first with regards to individuals there is just benefits when you worry mike tyson that actually does get rich on this.
This is something that makes your life better mike tyson just to be very poor, very destitute, having low quality of life is a high quality of life.
So on that individual level, those people are a benefit that exists from the sport.
Those are people who were given opportunities that didn't previously house.
But secondly, I think even if this is misleading for the large majority of people dot optimistic mindset that is generated by having this new opportunity that's something that's beneficial to them right, it means that your outlook on the world is less pessimistic.
It means that even though most people of color and most children of color are more likely going to succumb to the absolute horrors of the races classes a side, it is worth having that optimism just on a psychological level.
It means that the individual is able to have a higher quality of life because they're not constantly being weighed down by the specter of they're more likely than not mistreatment by society.
Second in about an argument at the demand for violence is zero sum this is intuitive.
I think this is just this animalistic thing that is love, sort of a holdover from evolution.
And as a result like this is the reason why we enjoy boxing right little thing that goes away when you abolish boxing as an institution that demand either eight just transferred to other sports like football or MMA, or whatever, in which case their arguments are literally non unique like there is no benefits that existence at government or even worse that mines transfers and like actual the today.
Violins were people how harmful interactions on the streets and things like that.
I think that's important recognize them because that's an actual increase in hartford existed.
The individual people and that's something that seriously worth being concerned about my thirty dependent point is the pleasure, the people get from viewing this.
Now, I think it's important to recognize that this is a serious impact right like age just on scope, lots of people view, boxing because they enjoy it.
So I think on a day to day basis, those individuals have a lower quality of life because this thing that they hold dear and they really really enjoy whether it's something they enjoy for, you know, animalistic blake reasons for just because it is a for the scape ism or something like that that is still the thing that matters to them and creates pleasure within the world too few analyzes the like utilitarian free market, you just care about how much the individual benefits from the existence of an institution.
Then this is the thing that makes the world a slightly better place.
But secondly, when you recognize that they really don't have a office because they don't solve for systemic violence, bats just a thing to vote awful because it's the only real benefit in the round given these reasons I think it's really intuitive as to why the track of history means that a their benefits oracle to materialize, but secondly that their actual tangible harms to engaging in this as a result of the fact that people do actually benefit from this that there are individual level benefits that exist from boxing and abolishing it doesn't really solve for the problems, proud to oppose.