I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the anti social behavioral disorders.
So broadly are your concern here is that we decrease anti social behavior.
We think the anti social behavior is particularly problematic because unlike most other types of criminal offenses, which are, you know, very clear cut get a like robbing a store for example, is like it's pretty clear to define what constitutes robbing a store anti social behavior is much harder to pin down and as such it's hard to crack down upon with that type of like legal constraints and protections that government is discussing none, the less we still think it has profound impacts something like, for example, being a nuisance in a public square on has a pretty tangible impact on a lot of the people that are occupying that public space on, you know, playing your music really loud, has an effect on your neighbors, both in terms of the irritation it generates, but also in terms of their ability to sleep, things like that.
So we think that criminal law should be concerned op, principally with mitigating damage upon innocent people and preventing them from experiencing harm, even if the harm is somewhat minimal at that point, then we think the anti social behavioral disorders are uniquely equipped to deal with that three dependent points pertaining to the mechanisms by which the anti social behavioral disorders mitigate the proliferation of anti social behavior.
First is that it acts as a deterrent.
So we think that often times people who are going to engage in particular behaviors do so on a cost benefit analysis if I'm going to rob the store for example, I'm less likely to do it.
If I, you know, fear that I'm going to be penalized for it, I think that robbery would be much more common if it wasn't a crime like whites with even go smaller offenses that presumably purring even less benefit to the individual person, there is a significant deterrent created by a potential looming penalty that is to say that you know, I might really like sitting out on my porch and playing music off my gramophone, mildly, but I'm way less likely to do it if there's actually like a criminal penalty for doing so so we think that laws like this create a significant capacity for people to say no I'm, not going to do that because there's like this ridiculous fighter this ridiculous penalty that might be levied against me if I do so.
Secondly, we think that the anti social behavioral disorders are more adaptable than typical criminal law.
So specifically government takes issue with the broadness of these laws, but we think that that's good because of how difficult anti social behavior is dependent on a lot of the time the specific action that creates a new since it's different and as such it's hard to create a consistent law passed by the legislature in a timely fashion, the pro pro britney responds to these public nuisances.
We think having a broadly applicable and sort of like adaptable, flexible law is good to ensure that we actually have the capacity in the legal infrastructure to crack down on these behaviors absent that flexibility.
We think that law enforcement is just going to be inherently little poor more poorly equipped to deal with anti social behavior.
And our third point is that the home these orders are did, you know, just good blocking people from doing these things.
A lot of the time anti social behavior is often conducted by a specific group of people.
So the gramophones thing is often done by a more elderly people on like this is the typical example for when the eight anti social behavior orders alike often implemented in because you have the capacity to in a criminal court, basically put a restraining order on the activity prevent people from doing it.
We think that that then increases, you know, the ability to stop people from doing it because you could actually put you know on specific legal document down saying you can't do this anymore, so that ensures that the harm generated by set action occurs less frequently project oppose.