We're proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban bowls, we'll model.
This is being enforced pretty comparably to other forms of animal fighting like dog, fighting or cock fighting.
So that is to say that there prison sentences or at least half the fines with both people who organize these types of events as well as the individual trainers who own the animals that are then subjected to this type of violence to win the pennant points are first being just sort of broadly animal rights and how bull fighting violates them first establishing why animal rights existent matter arm rights generally speaking or something that we think of as just something that's inalienable, something that's really fundamental to our nature and can't be infringed upon like, say our right to life, something that we hold in very high regard and are generally going to prioritize above.
We get a more simple like utilitarian impacts often times these are construed as being the new unique to humans, but we think that the reason why they all be extended to animals is that you know, fundamentally there just isn't a consistent principle that justifies why these are unique to humans arm there's really two lenses through which this is generally seen the one justifying humans only is sort of like an intelligence base standard that is that because humans are very self aware and they're sentient in there more intelligent than animals, they uniquely get rights.
I think the problem is that there's not a well established bright line on this that the term is how intelligent you have to be for rights on certainly one problem with this is that we generally think of humans with like intellectual disabilities or just generally unintelligent people still having brackets.
So I don't think it's a very principally consistency.
And then to apply to, I think the more consistent centered as the other one, which is just if something experiences pain and pleasure, it deserves rights because suffering is bad I'm.
I don't think there's any benefit to animal suffering, obviously not in a vacuum.
And as such is something that we should consider a smattering that when animals experience pain and we can demonstrably see that they are experiencing pain, then we should you know, not because that paid this is reflected in our dorms, actually things like animal abuse are illegal on.
But like inconsistently, we believe that killing them is fine.
I think, particularly them killing them through ways that are very inhumane and cause lots of lots of harm in pain and suffering onto the animal that are even torturous on should be considered, especially reprehensible bullfighting, particularly represents this on bullfighting involves a long slow in violent process by which the animal is killed it's also subjected to like large amounts of violence just in the process of the bull fight, and in the lead up to the bull fight there often held in inhumane conditions as such.
We think the bull fighting represents a lot of harm that is inflicted upon animals simply for human enjoyment and that this is principally on justin should be banned.
But secondly, we think that a band is justified even from a purely human centric perspective because it's a process that hurts humans too bullfighting is exceptionally dangerous bulls are strong and they are fast and they are extremely extremely violent creatures at that point.
Then humans are subjecting themselves to a large amount of risk simply for the purpose of entertainment in other forms of entertainment, we've instituted bans on the basis of large amounts of risk arm.
And I don't think that we should, you know, stop the buck simply because it's a cultural thing generally it's part of all cold culture is a weak argument simply on the basis that we ban all their thing is intrinsic to our culture on, you know, such as like slavery or other types of just inherently bad things on the basis that they call suffering given that I don't think that we should perpetuate something that puts humans at a significant amount of risk suffer prof to propose.