I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abandon school uniforms are first independent point is that school uniforms, create a sense of unity and community.
We think that particularly for younger children arm, this is extra but children in general that this sense of community and the sense of structure is important children early in their lives need structure, not just for the social benefits associated with it like being able to develop more holy in a such a scenario in which you, you know, feel secure and feel stable, but also because it's facilitative to your learning that is that when you feel that there is a sense of structure in your life, then you feel that you are more capable of learning here more capable of focusing on your academics.
We think furthermore that the sense of community created by that shared uniform creates an environment that is more facilitative to learning but also brings the social benefits associated with being in a community that is closeness with individuals who have shared experiences with you.
We think that this is particularly important because people are naturally inclined to form communities anyway.
So we think that when school uniforms create a sense of community that naturally draws people from the same school together, it prevents them from perf conforming communities based on more arbitrary and problematic lines like, say, race or socio economic status at that point, then we think that that we create communities that are in a sense more arbitrary less likely to be based on biases and more likely to be based on something that's relatively unimportant like the fact that you go to school together, our second independent point is that its signal school is a unique environment.
What we mean by this is that we want school to be seen by people who go to school as a place where you go to learn and probably not much else.
We think that most socialization and things like that will often happen outside of the classroom in the classroom.
We want people to be focused on learning because learning is so important it's a facilitative right in the sense that you are often capable of performing at your roles in a democracy without proper information in your often incapable of getting things like gainful employment and by extension, the other rights that are afforded by monetary income unless you have a proper education.
And of course the proper education is contingent upon you, you know, being present in the classroom, mentally actually learning things.
We think that if we have a uniform that actually associates, you know what you're wearing essentially with where you are, it creates the signal to children that school is not a place where you know you wear your casual clothes.
And you do the things that you do when you're wearing casual clothes, we think that what someone's wearing has a very strong effect on one's state of mind that people for example, behave more professionally when we're wearing professional clothing, regardless regardless of whether or not we're in a professional environment given that we think that uniforms are uniquely spent official to ensuring that people associate school with a time of focusing on learning.
Our third and final independent point is that this mitigates whatever particular types of outfits they can be disruptive to the learning environment.
So even if I am myself am wearing clothing that's relatively appropriate for school, we think it's quite likely that others might not be arm.
I don't wanna, lean into the sort of like the arguments.
The cuff talks about in terms of sexism were obviously not going to say that school uniforms should like enforced like the strictest sexual codes.
What we think instead is like, for example, like graphic tee shirts that like to pick acts of violence are like radical political positions.
We want to ensure that those sorts of things don't work their way into school hallways, not just because these can house particular harm such as like hate speech, but also because we think that they're generally disruptive to the learning environment that this clothing is both visually distracting, and it separates the sense of being in school from the sense of being in a more social environment.
And as such, we think it mitigates the ability of an individual to focus on their learning when they're in school, proud to oppose.