I'm proud to support the motion that we should ban fraternities, three, independent points.
First is the culture of abuse that exists within frat life and greek life.
In general, we think that because for twenties are often hierarchies that are this that puts students at the top that particularly put like adolescents that often don't have a good sense of you know, control over how with a party mako or even have much experience and sort of managing this type of things, things can often spiral out of control.
It is difficult for a fry to say, essentially, you know, we are going to draw a line in the sand or at a party.
This is something that is going on that we don't approve of something like under age drinking, something like sexual assault, we think then the because frats don't have the institutional basis to actually intervene meaningfully in the situations they are ill equipped to supervise these types of scenarios, but what we specifically CS frats as being significantly worse at doing that, just like your standard run of the mill party is the culture that surrounds greek life.
We think that there is often an assumption that you know, frats can just sort of how we could no rules approach to things that it's old like this very like hedonistic kind of mindset.
But the problem with that, of course, is that like when you take this mindset when you take the mindset of being in a frat means having whatever you want that often enables very pernicious behavior.
So things like sexual assaults are significantly more common at fraternity parties than other types of parties because they're being run by people who are operating under the assumption that anyone who was at the party is essentially subject to their will that they are running the show, and as a result are entitled to individual people who are present there, we think this is inherently problematic, and we think that this is inseparable from the nature fraternities, and as a result, justifies our second independent point, though, is the fraternities as institutions in general, resulting regressive networking.
So what we mean by this is that a lot of what office probably going to tell you is that for twenty years are good because it provides networking opportunities to young professionals that people who are trying to meet individuals with similar interests like particularly in the business sector often use for turning east with stylish, those ties.
But we think this is inherently an issue because for turning he's a eating, the basis by which these networks are created being a symbol of like a leaf, recurring institutions inherently tilts that perception of this is a person who is in acts organization for US house creek credibility in favor of men.
If this is something that fraternities uniquely access, it becomes something that gives an advantage to meddle justly.
We think that by banning fraternities and I extension by banning these networks from being disproportionately tilted towards men, reduce the fundamental basis for inequity in the workplace that is that from the starting gate men often have networks that enable them to get into positions of higher authority and higher employment that women just don't have access to because of the tilted nature of greek life.
Our third and final independent point, though, is really to preempt something that we think off is going to say that is that by banning fraternities are just gonna like push them off campus that is going to do even worse things without university supervision.
We think in general that argument is something that falls because universities don't do much to supervise them right now, but more importantly is that we think that the ban on fraternities will send up valuable signal that is the university is specifically putting a stamp of disapproval on fraternities as an institution saying this is something that's problematic.
This is something that is dangerous.
We think that is a going to help a lot of students who aren't in fraternities, particularly like incoming students say, maybe this is something I shouldn't associate myself with.
Maybe I shouldn't go to these parties because this is something that's been explicitly labeled as problematic and dangerous for me.
But secondly, we think it's useful because even if for attorneys will continue to try to exist off campus, we think that stamp of disapproval that societal signal from the university will be valuable in in the long run mitigating their influence proud to propose.