I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should increase internet censorship.
I want to begin with a quick overview of that I think addresses the lion share of god's material, and that is that if specific materials are legal anyway, we don't think that internet censorship is a necessary tool to enforce those laws, something like child pornography is illegal in its own right production, distribution and ownership is itself a crime.
So we don't think then that it's actually necessary to even shut down the websites because we think they're just other avenues to which you can prosecute the individuals if somebody downloads child pornography that itself is a crime there's, no need to bring down the medium because you can just prosecute the existing crimes that are on the books.
Censorship then seems in to be an unnecessary tool for most of god's impacts first independent point is that there's a freedom of information intrinsic to the internet, and that on this basis, government intervention is unjustified.
We think that there is it really to basis for this.
The first is more tied to freedom of speech that is sort of the autonomy that is it trends like to all, you know, basic human rights, the freedom to do with your life as one pleases, and this is rooted in the fact that people are the best proxy for their own interests.
We think then that it is unreasonable for governments to limit their, you know, basic our basic rights to access things that we please and that make us individually happy and as such absent things that are already vehicle for obvious reasons, we think that government limits on what sort of information and what sort of materials we can access are unjustified, even if this is something like you ISIS ideology, there is still a problem intrinsically with people intervening in individuals want to access that material, but I think the second problem with these restrictions is that there isn't objectivity that's intrinsic to any government.
We think that no conception of the good life is inherently correct in so far as our preferences are often shaped by the societies that we grow up in so our perceptions of things like religion and things like justified, uses of force are shaped by that society, not by any sort of like universal moral code that is inherently objective as such it is unreasonable for governments to one four enforces specific moral code.
But secondly, and I think this sort of ties back into it are seconded dependent point is that there isn't a justification for jurisdiction over the internet because the internet is something that is international, we think then because this is something international in nature and not defined by state borders, it is on just for individual governments to intervene in the type of information that is conveyed over at look at the you know, the basic nature of this is that it is a way for people to communicate across state borders arm, and it is a sub culture in and of itself.
No government has the right to intervene and such our third independent point is that it warrants persecution narratives.
So I think even if you take the objective moral code and you say okay, this is what is inherently right, and this is what is inherently wrong.
I still think that there is a pragmatic problem with internet censorship, and that is that often these sort of like dredges of the internet, your your neo nazi senior ISIS fighters, thrive off of narratives that paying them is persecuted.
The reason for this is that they often recruit people themselves who feel that they are isolated from the rest of society or rejected by it, and as such when isis or neo nazis or whomever can essentially put forward a narrative that says we are persecuted to we are also being targeted by the masses of society.
There is, you know, a better ability to recruit essential eight that they are more capable of bringing in large numbers of people to their cause.
We think then that there is a significant amount of backlash associated with internet censorship and that because it is impossible to fully regulate every corner of the internet, you can never achieve a full shutdown of these organizations rather, you can just push them further and further underground where they are tougher to fight and where they are more capable of bringing in large numbers of people who themselves see themselves as rejected proud to oppose.