I am proud to oppose the motion is that we should ban bull fighting our first independent point regards human enjoyment.
So the fact that this is something that's gonna so heavily prevalent in spanish culture, and so many people go to it home, probably signals that a lot of people, you know, get a kick out of this that they goodwill fighting offense in this is something they do with their family.
This is just like whatever casual sunday enjoyment on that.
Then you know me that there is obviously like a tangible benefit to hopping this practice in place that you know, people see this and much of the same way they might see a movie or go to a show on this is something that they enjoy watching given that the and there is certainly a human element to the joint went to this on.
And the point where you're weighing that against the animals rights, I think it's important to establish that animals probably don't have rights on specifically gov sets up like this pain, pleasure, patrick.
But I think the problem is that rights don't come from pain and pleasure, rather, they come from sort of a opposition of higher order intelligence, and specifically the capacity to become self aware and understand one's own preferences in a much more detailed fashion at that point, then because humans do operate at higher order thinking levels on it makes sense to prioritize the wishes of humans, even if the armed with the level of like suffering versus pleasure is you notice chopped our second independent point regards culture.
So I think much like the the raw enjoyment stem from this on this is like another benefit to humans that particularly within spain on this is something that is deeply and historically ingrained into spanish culture and something that people fundamentally regard as part of their identity.
I think this is particularly what makes it as its distinct benefit is that this is something that people specifically identify with and see is fundamentally important to their lives.
I think, at the point where someone's identity is tied up in a practice, it takes on a much more significant position because not only do they just get like enjoyment out of seeing this, but if it were to be banned, people would be upset at like an existential level.
I think identity is something that is fundamentally important to human beings in so far as it shapes our perception of who we are as individuals and in so far as it is that sort of like higher order preference that it is something that people see is extremely important, we should afford extreme weight to it.
I think even if like you are, I don't particularly sympathize with bull fighting on that level understandings of significance and importance and relative benefits are often subjective, and as such it, the individual people on the ground say this is something that's really, really massively important to them.
We should respect those wishes and respect those preferences.
Our third and final independent point is that making bull fighting illegal because it is so heavily demanded will simply result in underground bullfighting and analogous example in much of central america.
And even in spain itself is cock fighting where instead of having the sort of like open infallible and regulated cock fights pull up bullfighting would simply become something like what cock fighting is today where it is wildly on regulated and as such the abuses internalized by animals are much more significant and much more extreme given that then we think there is significant harm intrinsic to making this sort of practice illegal and making it harder to conduct this in an open arms in an open and public fashion where you know, government officials can step in and say these practices are humane.
These practices are not keeping proud to oppose.