I'm proud to stand improper opposition to the motion that we should adopt libertarianism.
I think generally speaking the way the cover proche.
This was to say here is a high level reason might tear reading of the majority is bad.
I don't think though that that justifies abolition of a lot of important public resources that are important to minimizing suffering in the world given this, I think that you can basically say okay, here's some really bad things that happen in the status quo, but generally speaking democracy should solve for that generally speaking, the government does more good than harm.
And what I want to talk to you about is the ways in which the government reduces suffering by having the sort of infrastructure that god would get rid of first, we would say that redistributive taxation and redistributive policies in general are good.
Secondly, we would say that regulations are good.
And third, we would say that public resources that are acceptable to all are good first on redistributive policies, we think in the world their houses and have nots.
This is true because it is probably honestly exacerbated on their side of the house.
But there are people who are poor they're people who are not poor in when you were born to someone who is poor.
You are also poor is the lottery of birth it's, not that people who are poor are intrinsically worth last, but they suffer more because of a lack of resources.
We think then that it is justified for the government to engage in policies that take from the rich the house and give to the poor house knots.
This is for really two reasons.
The first is that equity decreases not suffering, suffering, doesn't exist on a linear scale that is if you pump a bunch of money into a rich person's pocket, they don't suddenly do with that much better that's because the generally spend it on things that aren't really important to quality of life in the way that things like healthcare, other basic things are they'll, spend it on things like a nice car, a nice house, but secondly, we think that diminishing marginal returns important concept in economics also apply to income.
So when I have lots of disposable money, it's not worth as much to me because the diminishing marginal returns on the individual dollars that I have are less and less the more I happen to think equalizing the playing field means the most utility, because people get the most bang for their buck.
They value with the most our second independent point is that regulations are these particular protects the weak from the powerful onside government.
You get rid of the regulations that prevent really bad things like pollution and price gouging things like that things were a third party is harmed, but the person engaging in the bad action doesn't have an incentive to just not do it on their own.
And this makes for an inherently worse world.
You create things the increase in net suffering, because the individual people engaging in these problematic actions.
Don't have a force pushing against them to say don't do this thing that makes the world significantly worse.
Our third in opinion point is the public resources are good that there are things that we should all have equal access to because they're facilitative to basic quality of life.
I think a good example of this is roads or sidewalks things that are important for us getting from point a to point b.
But if the government relinquishes control of these types of things, if they privatize roads and things like that it's, like a lot of really, really, like, very libertarian people would like to see then you have a lot of harms for the people that need that to get from point a to point b.
I think you wind up putting a lot of money into the pockets of people that already have money and saving it off of the people that need these public resources in order to do things like get to their work or get to a hospital or all these other things.
When you privatize out the services you make life very, very difficult for people that don't have the means to deal with the private sector, I think that's a significant problem, and I think that it leads to a lot of suffering.
Look, I understand the sort of philosophical justifications that are given by government.
I don't think though that they reconcile with the intense suffering that is created by the realization of these high level, philosophical ideas, proud to oppose.