I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban anonymous posting our first independent point is that this is largely unenforceable, a lot of what gov discusses regarding legal materials, such as you know, like pirated movies all, but also like more pernicious things like child pornography are largely circulated on sites that are themselves a legal like the pirate bay.
This is a problem then because it is very difficult to enforce a law like this on a site that itself is already in violation of the law by virtue of its own existence.
So we don't think that the sites are going to comply, but even with regards to other sites like facebook and you know, like they talk about like four chan for example, I think there is one the problem of international enforcement that is that the sites exist across state borders, so it will be extremely difficult for individual governments to make these requirements.
But secondly that these requirements even one successfully enforced are easy to evade the best version of the model that go puts forward, is tying it to a facebook account, but facebook accounts can also be anonymous because you can just make like a facebook account with like a name and a photo that's not of you.
So then this itself is a problem because it means that there's no actual way to ensure that every single person has like their identity tied to them, the only way that you can really do this is just to like automatically docks everybody by a lake tying each like account to the I p address that it uses obviously this is a huge rights violation for reasons I'll get into later, but also with regards the toxic argumentation put forward by gov like this would just be ridiculously awful thing to do to people our second independent point is free speech.
So this is specifically why we think that there's a proactive right to be anonymous on the internet.
We think that often people need to maintain anonymity from a fear of retaliation against it pinions that are expressed for example, opposition view points on a thread that is like largely in favor of one particular position require individuals to be anonymous out of fear of like direct physical offline retaliation if I were to probe post like, for example, a pro hillary post on like our slash the donald it probably wouldn't go over too well and anonymity is necessary then for me to comfortably express myself in that forum.
But secondly, we think that there is a like fundamental right to remain anonymous on the basis that we think that opinion should just be expressed regardless of you don't like we don't think that you need to tie your name to something to be to be capable of expressing an opinion.
The reason that we were carryout free speech is simply because it's facilitative to all their rights, you need to put your opinions out there so that governments and the public are aware that there is support for a specific ideology and can respond appropriately.
This is especially true with governments.
So we don't think then that it's necessary to tie that opinion to a specific person to exercise that right.
Rather.
This is something that can very easily existed the abstract.
And we think that principally, we should maintain people's capacity to represent those opinions anonymously.
Our third in opinion point in but it just briefly, but the way we think that because this is a fundamental right, this out ways like the discursive arguments that gulf makes like these are very much like a like the discourse stuff is very much a drop in the bucket when compared to something like a fundamental right to free speech are third in opinion, point is the right to be forgotten.
So we think that because a person is defined by their preferences and their opinions that like this fundamentally is what makes me distinct from other people, your past self can be considered fundamentally distinct from your present self, your preferences in the basic thoughts and ideas that make up who you are changing over time.
So we think then that it is unfair for someone's past actions to fundamentally determine the current perceptions of them given that we think that anonymity is important because it preserves people's right to be for god, and that is that their presence self doesn't have to suffer for the actions taken by their past selves, even from a perspective that doesn't make these into distinct individuals.
We still think it is fundamentally, and just the way that the internet has a tendency to like stir up people's pasts and use it against them that fundamentally than can be protected by identity prod to oppose.