I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt multi culturalism.
So two points really.
But first just like a little quick model matter explanation, I guess, is that what we mean by adopting multi culturalism is really embracing a society where multiple cultural backgrounds coexist.
So this is something less like a nation state, and more like, you know, countries where there is some, you know, a wide variety of cultures represented on we're, obviously not going to call the up that their can of represented equally, but we do want to embrace a society that attempts to integrate rather than segregate, essentially sir to independent points.
The first being that you know that integration arm basically least more contact amongst cultures and increases tolerance for others.
So we think that in a world without multi culturalism, that is one where there is sort of segregation based on cultural values and norms arm, where you know, sort of like different groups in enclaves have different physical territory, so that they don't really intermingle very much there's a lot of intrinsic harm's arm, generally for the ones that for whatever culture is in the minority on the first is just outright discrimination arm, you know, is talking about like housing policies, talking about, you know, education policies that are you just how of like active discrimination against this group, because they don't have the political capital and odd numbers to really represent themselves properly within the system.
Second is violence on, you know, just just outright violence against members of the press community.
This is I think a good example of this is islamophobia in the united states where people who just legitimately do not understand the culture that a lot of people of middle eastern descent come from our board translates into widespread violence in acts of hate outright hatred against these people arm, and that largely stems from just a lack of understanding for me, lack of co mingling that arm that allows the worst stereo types of the minority group to take root in the minds of the majority and dom becomes the character by which all all people of middle eastern descent are analyzed.
Lastly, though is just segregation arm, and we think that broadly speaking segregation arm, you know, sort of the separate but equal line of thinking doesn't actually play out what widely happens with segregation is a minority population is put into arm is put into a living situation that is deeply inadequate when compared to the one of the majority has either a good example of this is on that african americans in the united states are largely relegated to arm impoverished resource poor inner city areas on where they are deprived of educational and financial opportunities.
On this, of course, then leads to sort of cyclical poverty where it is difficult for people to escape these harms of their own merit and their own volition because they are starting at a position that is relatively worse than those of people who enjoy power and privilege given not that we think that multiculturalism can help solve for this by making people much more comfortable without like sharing quarters with people that come from different backgrounds that have different culture and dom by sharing those faces.
Thank you.
Facilitate more upward mobility.
You facilitate more thorough integration.
And you don't have this level of segregation where people are relegated off second.
And just very quickly is that I think you get a better culture when you have multi culturalism, a lot of the time culture can become dominated by unchecked believes that without some sort of outside perspective, often goes unchallenged om.
I think a lot of the times when people talk about the worst elements of the specific culture like things pertaining to odd, you know, discrimination against women, for example, more conservative cultures, that's largely a product of interaction with other more modern and more accepting cultures.
So when you have this multicultural environment where there is that constant odd, the dialogue between cultures, I think you're quite likely then to take the best of both worlds and run with that proctor purpose.