I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize the ivory trade.
The model is simple on we will house stockpiles only to be sold that is confiscated ivory by countries in which the ivory trade is obviously, you know, arm fairly prevalent.
So, for example, kenya and the central african republic have large stockpiles of ivory, we will allow them to sell those stockpiles, but we are not going to legalize a sale by non government actors or beat the actual process of getting ivory from animals in the first place, three independent points.
First, this generates income for poor nations.
Most of the nations that are on the front lines of battling the ivory trade are disproportionately poor african nations.
These are weak states that often have difficulty collecting reliable tax revenue and as such have it very small apparatus for actually responding to the front lines of the ivory trade.
The problem we have with the ivory trade is that animals are harmed in the process, and as such the most important link to sever is the link where in animal poachers actually extract ivory from rhinos, elephants, locking the infrastructure to enforce anti poaching laws means that these poor states are often left unequipped to do the most important job of stopping this problematic trade if you will allow them, however, to sell off this ivory and generate income that way then they're able to redirect those funds into actually like stamping down on the poaching itself.
That is the most problematic aspect at the trade.
Our second independent point is that this policy undercuts the black market countries can sell any low selling point that is significantly lower than the market already solved for.
So if a certain amount of ivory is worth a hundred dollars on the black market, a state actor can undercut them for a lower amount of money, say ninety dollars for that same amount, and as such get a larger amount of interested buyers and cut out the black market from a significant portion of their sales.
This in turn means that those who actually do the poaching are crowded out of the market smugglers are likely to leave the profession as our poachers once they have no smugglers to sell to this in turn ensures that as you engage in this policy, you can essentially crowd out the market from its own industry.
And in essence, kill the demand for actually hunting down these animals in the first place, our third independent point.
And probably most fundamental is that it reduces the demand for ivory.
The reason why this is true is that you can target sales to lower class individuals.
Most of the demand for ivory right now is driven by a burgeoning chinese middle class that sees ivory is a status symbol.
This in turn drives the incredible amount that is brought into a china.
I think, like forty percent, or possibly even sixty percent of the global I free trade ends in china.
So at that point than if you were able to target sales of ivory to lower income individuals and proliferate, ownership of ivory among the lower class, you kill the status of ivory as a status symbol.
In essence, what this does is ensure that there isn't as much demand for ivory in the first place because of the middle class doesn't want it.
Then the trend dies in overtime, the lower classes less interested in it as well that in turn insurers that there's, nobody buying it from the smugglers who in turn will not buy it from the poachers who in turn will move to other industries in order to ensure that they are, you know, making money because ivory doesn't have that money anymore as such a government actor is uniquely positioned to restructure the market to collapse of the market, proud to propose.