I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should increase racial profiling at airports.
Our first independent point is that there are rights violations intrinsic to this practice.
So first, we think that these are fundamentally arbitrary practices that all well there is certainly a stereo type of our minds, and perhaps even a statistical correlation of like black and brown individuals being more likely to commit these crimes.
We don't think that a it is to extend that is significantly higher enough that warrants mass all rights violations, inflicted upon people of these races, but be, we don't think that the crimes of the few should make the many suffer that is to say that just because a few individuals of middle eastern descent are you know, members of terrorist cells that inflict harm upon others that doesn't justify subjecting the hundreds of millions of people that happen to be of the same race to arm enhanced interrogation techniques, essentially.
So specifically, what is the nature of the rights violations that we're looking at, I think it's interesting when government tells you we're not going to strip search or a lake, you do any of those other over the top things which is going to be engaging in enhanced searching.
So I would clarify that if enhanced searching isn't strip searches and other stuff like that, I really don't know what it is, because like absent the thing where they just kind of like swallow up your hands down like that's it like that, and that that's what enhanced searching is when they pull you over at line like that's what they're gonna do.
So I think it's important and to recognize that there is a significant burden placed upon innocent individuals who have done nothing wrong and simply happen to share a skin color with people have done something wrong that in and of itself is a rights violations specifically a violation of one's rights to privacy.
That is on insofar as privacy is, you know, key to a lot of other rights like the ability to you know, do is one please without fear of retaliation on necessarily, but it's also a violation of one's right to bodily autonomy to have as one pleases done to one's body ought.
We think that you know, strip searches, especially are extremely invasive om and definitely constitute a significant rights violation in terms of that, again, it's probably fair for us to say that these individuals I oblations don't amount to the same as an individual right to life, for example, that stems from like an airplane attack.
We also think that these attacks are so rare that in the aggregate on the rights violations that come from random interrogations, probably outweigh the significance of like those like another nine.
Eleven as stephenson by the fact that nine eleven was like sixteen years ago, our second independent point is that racial profiling is effective on it's easy to dodge, because if you just recruit people that don't match the profile, then you can just have them carry out the attacks.
Instead, like ISIS has white people and whose way people can just conduct the attacks, if really explicit racial profiling actively distracts the TSA from looking into people who operate brown given that we think it's just like a bad way of ensuring safety.
And at that point that I think a lot of guts offense about specifically protecting innocence right to life falls through if anything this is the worse tactic of insuring people safety and the such actively infringes upon those rights, our third opinion point is the narrative that centers around racial profiling.
So specifically guns give some lip service to the notion that you know, we'd rather have racial profiling happen explicitly that implicitly implying that racial profiling is something that happens anyway, I think the problem here is that when it happens explicitly that's actually a boon for recruiting for terrorist cells on a terrorist cell specifically to the recruiting on the basis that people feel alienated from society at large and specifically individuals of middle eastern descent, often feel the effects of islamophobia in a very real and tangible way sells like all qaeda and ISIS then utilize that sense of alienation to recruit individuals into being terrorists.
This of course, is a huge driving force in their ability to conduct attacks so we think it's problematic.
Then when things that could easily be cast as plea in islamophobia are able to be shaped into that narrative and are able to be used to affirm the notion that ISIS says, you know, you are now cast a society join us, it will fight against the oppressors proud to oppose.