I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt atheism, you independent points.
The first is that a reasonable alternative to like whole hearted belief exists and that's like gnosticism reasonably speaking.
This is what we should adopt instead, so gove talks to pretty extensively about how if there is no affirmative proof for something we should actively disbelieving at that is we should project.
And I think this is a problem though, because generally speaking, when we say there is sort of insufficient data or insufficient evidence on something we don't just say.
Well, the case is settled, it doesn't exist.
I think what we have in the status quo is no proof one way or another about whether or not god exists or any deity for that matter.
So I think this is a problem because there is the possibility of a deity right things like the inexplicable nature of the big bang open up a lot of questions as to what causes these things regardless of scientific advances, there always openings in our understanding of the known universe, and if time it of all these large questions that are fundamentally unanswerable from our perspective, dvds coup to always have a role in it.
So I think it is not particularly prudent than to outright reject even the possibility of some sort of TI.
Eighty eight recognize also that science is often not reversed we're living in a period of unprecedented scientific discovery, but that begs the question then of the fact that we all we seem to reject or or at least always assume that that large amount of discovery is inherently warranted scientific discoveries that were often discredited hundreds of years after they're made.
And in recent memory we have made most of the major scientific discoveries of the modern age.
This is a problem because these things can be reversed the things that gov considers like inherent proof that we just cannot assume a deity exists might be reversed in the long term, and I think that that in and of itself is a reason to be agnostic.
Our second independent point is that religion as an institution is something that just makes the world a better place.
So even if you put aside all of these things about like whether or not he's rational, we think that just being an atheist makes the world a little worse.
A couple reasons for this.
The first is that the after life is something that result relieve suffering for those who are currently experiencing the most suffering in the mortal world.
So people who are for example, starving in the streets of like bolivia which suits largely like christian country, I believe on the lake can at least to some extent be relieved by the notion that one day they are going to this after life to this happened because they were pious individuals because they did nothing wrong and as a result of that, they will get to experience eternal happiness, it doesn't matter if this is true because it gives them peace, it mind wall.
They have their suffering in this world that's important because the reality is that even if suffering is not unique, even if they're going to starve on either side of the house, the the reassurance in their mind that happiness that is generated by the thought that they will experience an after life house, tangible value being happy is a good thing.
So I think we will defend the belief systems that allow people to be happy.
But secondly, we would say that held specifically inspires levels of charity and people people that genuinely believe that if they do bad things, they will be punished are less likely to do the bad thing.
Obviously there are people for whom this incentive structure doesn't particularly affect them.
Obviously those people exist on the margins we would say that if there is anyone who is disincentive eyes from wrong doing because they fear punishment that's, a good thing, proud to oppose.