I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that schools should teach only abstinence only sex education, three, independent points.
First is that this is the only effective method of birth control when you're talking about really any method of birth control, you know, pale when you're talking about dis cod barrier, methods, like condoms, there's, a fail, right intrinsic to all of these part of that is improper usage arm, because you know, children are just bad at using things because their children, but also because on the ID just intrinsically to the the nature of the product itself, it just fails sometimes on their hormonal reasons when you're talking about formal reports control, and then the also with barrier methods on ghetto when your mass producing something in a factory, there are just certain things that are faulty on, you know, condoms, break things like that.
So I thought point then I becomes important to educate children properly to tell them this is the only way you will be able to ensure current that you're not going to, you know, get pregnant or had an STD is too hot sex in a manner just did not have sex rather on because that's all you can really do to have one hundred percent certainty.
A second independent point is that the children really just shouldn't be having sex.
Yet.
I think it's important to recognize that on at this age children are poorly informed fast.
And I don't think sexual education is really going to mitigate that om I'll get more into the flaws of the the process itself in a bit, but it's important that you at such a young age you're, not going to have unit meaningful consent because meaningful consent is predicated on the capacity of the participating parties to have some sort of like a reasonable well rounded understanding of what they're getting into on and specifically with sacks, which can have incredible consequences on our children for a long time when you're talking about, you know, pregnancy or stds, this is something that they're just not ready for yet at this stage.
So it's, not reasonable than for schools to teach them on.
You know, here the tools to go out and do this thing that you shouldn't be doing no matter what the third independent point that I'd like to put forward is that just broadly speaking even the that the concept of sex education that is on your teaching children safe sex practices is inappropriate for teachers to discuss.
I think generally speaking, this is something that you know, maybe parents can make an individual decision on whether or not they want their children to learn about these things.
But this isn't something that should go on in a public school because there are legitimate reasons for parents to not want their children to you know, be exposed to this discussion at such a young age arm, get different children develop at different rates on different parents have different parenting styles.
So this perfectly legitimate reasons to say that this just isn't something that an individual parent wants their children to be exposed to at that point, it's inappropriate for a public school system too broadly have this conversation with every single student that senate because that does essentially endorse the position that this is something that we should universally expose children to at the point where there's reasonable deviation from that standard on.
And with this is particularly sensitive information that parents would have a legitimate reason for full the blocking children from even being exposed to it's reasonable to say that we should only teach abstinence and any other additional information can simply be provided by parents who would like to have that conversation with their children prop to propose.