I'm proud to stand a proposition of the motion that we should adopt libertarianism, three, independent points.
But first a quick model, we would say that this is gonna something we are adopting in terms of a governmental structure, so specifically a governmental structure that necessitates less involvement of the state into personal affairs.
This means you know everything from lower taxes and less regulations all the way down taking a less involvement and shaping social policy like what constitutes marriage we didn't or say wide array of policies underneath this framework, but broadly we're going to defend the notion that government should just do last essentially in a private citizenship, making more decisions about what happens to them rather than the government making decisions for them.
The first independent point that I really just probably want to establish is why these principles matter that autonomy on an individual level is something that's really, really important.
And so the majority of our constructs of what constitutes our rights is derived from autonomy being the principal thing that we care about even something as fundamental as our right to life is only based on the fact that we, you know, have a life where we can make decisions about what happens to us and you know what freedoms we have that autonomy in that liberty is really fundamental to our entire perception of what constitutes a right.
So this is something that we should always take with, you know to the old, the highest extreme, essentially that we always want to establish is much autonomy for the individual as is reasonably possible, there will always be constraints on that, for example, we should give them autonomy to murder, but even then we would only say that the you know the reason that you don't want people to be allowed to murder is so because of doing so actually restrict other people's autonomy in another sense, essentially what we really want to do is maximize autonomy on net for as many people as possible.
I think that broadly speaking the materialism accomplishes that by ensuring that the government has as little of our role in people's lives as possible.
The second point that I wanna bring up, though, is that the government is a bad proxy for making these decisions for people.
So I think a lot of the defense on that will come out of sight opposition in favor of big government will be that you know, regulations like food, safety regulations and things like that are effective in ensuring that people on are protected from predatory practices and things like that that limit their autonomy by establishing harms upon them.
One is that individuals are really the best doctors for these things they know best arm, and when you try to proxy their preferences through a bureaucracy, essentially there's always going to be inefficiencies entrance that the bureaucracy just isn't good at figuring out what that individual person once in isn't in a position to make those decisions intelligently for them.
So this ranges from everything taking over regulations being bad, something like you know, on the regulation on now, although producer not being able to put a certain feature in a car having to wear seat belts when in reality that's, just a something that an individual person can decide if they want to buy something with seat belts are not based on their personal preferences, but also social policy with the government intervenes into things like I gave mary church friends writes simply on the basis of the the social more society around them.
But on the in reality, this isn't something that society should be deciding this is something that the individual should be deciding.
And so far said most irakli affects them sued to that when these regulations come down from the upper level at the government that's necessarily problematic.
The third and final point I want to make very briefly is just that people really at a principled level should be responsible for themselves.
I don't think that there's a positive obligation for an individual to support another suit, redistributive economics, for example on.
And the reason for this is that you know, we derive our, you know, our humanity and our at our sense of worth from the autonomy arm over our property or things.
And because those those that property is facilitative to us being able to get away, exert our own preferences, I if I want a car if I want to drive around a lot because it makes me happy and eat the, you know the money to buy a car.
And I think if we do the work to get that money.
And if we earn that capital that property has to belong to sits on just then when the government takes it away prop to propose.