I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt vegetarianism as a model.
We want to establish that this is a debate about whether or not it would be preferable sis for society to voluntarily accepted this diet change, we're, not going to implement policies that would force people to become vegetarians.
Rather, we just think that this is a preferable lifestyle choice for people to make on an individual level, but especially on a societal level in application, our first independent point is animal rights.
So we think that animal rights stem from just sort of like a pain sass like a like a suffering, slash like happiness pop perspective that if there is suffering in the world, it is bad, regardless of where that suffering comes from, and we think that intelligence based gonna frameworks of whether or not something house rights are inherently evil list at that point, then if it is important to respect animal rights, there is obviously a need to become vegetarian in so far as vegetarianism one reduce eliminates the moral complicity in the suffering of animals that factory farming.
These are obviously pretty extreme forms of suffering chickens that are kept in tight coops, for example or house that are given a really any livestock that is a given sufficient space, but also the way in which they are systemically executed.
If you think life has any intrinsic value.
This is bad, but also the ways in which the animals are killed, are often brutal and gruesome at that point.
Then we think that there is a moral imperative to reduce your complicity in it.
But secondly, when you have a society of vegetarians, you obviously eliminate the demand for this product in the first place, and as a result, there is a tangible change and whether or not it happens because nobody actually is buying the products that facilitate the suffering in the first place.
Our second independent point is environmental impacts.
We think first that livestock is an inefficient use of land and water that just growing produce is just a better way to use this because it you know, demands less from the system that in turn means that they're less things contributing to droughts in other resource shortages.
But other that there is less also that there is less over farming of land that you, you know, don't deplete soil in the way that you do when you have it, you know, actually, like just absolutely beautiful, aided by livestock, in that sense, then you have a infrastructure for food that is more capable of sustaining large populations at affordable rates, that's important for things like global hunger, but it's also important a local level for ensuring the people's.
You know, just the expenditures on foods, food is lower beyond this, though, in terms of the local environment, we also think that there's a significant impact on global warming created by the agricultural industry methane, for example, that's like common in just like general biological waste generated by live stock, is a significant contributing factor to a mission that dr, global warming as such that.
And we think it is important to mitigate the extent to which livestock or actually bred and born in which in turn then contributes to global warming.
Our third independent point is health of the individual.
So we think that just being a vegetarian is a healthier lifestyle red meat in particular is all you know there of to plaster of studies demonstrating that red meat is carcinogenic.
We also think that you know, on this meat is often laden with fat and other, you know, harmful ingredients that just aren't particularly healthy and beyond just the individual benefits of being healthy, you know, longer lifespan, happier, lifestyle at the mental impacts of just being healthy on there's.
Also a larger societal impacts for example, decreased health care costs, which I actually have a ripple effect across all of society because no longer do you have a system that requires all healthy individuals to subsidize comparatively less healthy individuals that in turn means a society that spends less on healthcare costs and more on other things that are presumably, you know, good uses of your money when you don't have to spend it on healthcare also there's just less suffering now because less people her own healthy and have to get healthcare in the first place for things like heart conditions prop to propose.