I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should make sex.
Education, mandatory our first independent point is that this will likely lead to worse sex education.
So we want to consider for a moment on the landscape of the schools that how sex education largely, these are schools and fairly liberal areas that are more, you know, tolerant of these types of things like teenage sexuality or other in states that even that are more liberal.
So even in like, say, conservative area like upstate new york that might be reluctant to have sex, education, there's like a liberal state government that is going to mandate that sex education.
I think then the problem is that when you're talking about increasing the number of locations that have mandatory sex education you're necessarily talking about the types of places that rejected wholesale in the status quo.
So really conservative rural areas like say, texas may be or in alabama like a lot of the deep south really is what you're looking at in this kind of cross section.
The problem then, with mandating sex education without putting specific requirements on what constitutes sex.
Education is two fold.
First, you have a system of that is likely to result in either a bad practices being taught.
So like, for example, they just for some hapless gym teacher in there that you know, it's such as like this guy that doesn't understand how the pill works in so they give actively bad advice that actually it increases problematic sex ghetto like activities and doesn't actually educate people properly or secondly, they have larger structures that are structurally harmful like abstinence only sex education, which statistically increases teen pregnancy and STD rates armed to the point where you have these this counterfactual.
This is the type of system that's going to be set up in these regions that don't already have sex education.
I think the problem.
The question then becomes is this bad sex education, worse than no sex education.
I think the answer is yes, for two reasons for first in the status quo, even in a hyper conservative area, their children that are still going to get access to good sex, education with out it being present in the schools because they grow up in families that are more tolerant to these issues, and as such the learn about these things in the household, but having sex education that pushes admit badly informed the worms directly counters what they're learning in the household, then, and as such the only children that are likely to get proper education on these issues are not having their education distorted.
But secondly, we think there's an issue because a lot of the practices themselves or necessarily harmful that abstinence only sex education, for example, creates disillusionment on the student body.
This is white bear for example.
The like new tory is over the top like drug awareness program actually increased drug usage rates because it creates disillusionment with authority structures in the school, even if government client tries to tell you that in that like the state mandated in the system can just create like a good system.
The problem is that in the status quo, the states that don't have mandatory sex education or the same state that are likely to actually mandate these problematic forms of sex.
Education, texas, for example, a forced to mandate sex ed for all of its high schools would probably say that has to be ousted it's only this then again increases the proliferation of harmful norms are second in the points pending point briefly as parental rights.
We think that parents are the best proxy for young children on the basis of the children themselves aren't capable of performing informed consent when they're at such a young age, and as such the parent has the best interests of the child in mind because the child can't make these decisions for themselves at that point, then if their parents that don't want their kids to receive sex education, we believe that the a and not the state have the better information on what is and isn't right for their child, proud to oppose.