I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should legalize polygamy.
Our first independent point is that we think that the nuclear family is not only preferable for society at large, but also this traditional construct of it to parent nuclear family is better for kids soup first on society, arm urge you first and kids.
We think that largely on the gate of the structures that come from raising a child are largely based on one having sort of like positive role models that you spend a significant portion of your time with, but be having clear delineations and who cares for children, we think that both of these are significantly more complicated in a polygamous marriage because you believe that at the end of the day on, you know, this is something that a your kid is going to have less time with each individual parent when their time is essentially being spread out more.
But also we believe that making those delineations on who spends time with the kid is going to be more complicated with a large set of parents that in turn creates the problem of you essentially on, you know, having your parents and you know, have these arguments over who take cares takes care of you when in the course that happens in two parent structures, but we think it's inherently more problematic when there's like more people which enables more buck passing and responsibility.
So this really isn't like a good environment to raise a child and we think that the societal norm stem from the fact that just generally its proliferation which will happen to the causation we'll get to that in a moment, but on we think that proliferation then serve normalizes it in society in a way that exposes you know, more kids to it and as such are increases the magnitude of harm second independent point is that we think the polygamy decreases barriers to the abuse of marriage as an institution.
So one hypothetical example of this is say, like a group of mobsters who want to avoid testifying against one another so with such, they just like enter a polygamous marriage and as such don't have to testify on because they have spousal privilege, the reason this doesn't happen in the status quo is because you're only allowed to marry one person at a time.
So if they're all in their own marriages, then like you can't do that, but if they are, you know, if you happily guess marriages, people can essentially enter and leave marriages as they choose an ass.
They feel free to so this creates then a significantly lower barrier to abusing the legal privileges us arm associated with marriage.
And as such means that people can, you know, essentially follow the law and do other, you know, problematic things laden likes it taxes, for example, arm by, you know, entering a marriage with one another.
Our third and final independent point is just the abuses that are associated with polygamy.
So we think that way arm obviously like the big highlighted example is sort of these like more conservative religious groups that often on have a lot of like spousal abuse in polygamous relationships.
We think the proliferation of awe.
Polygamous relationships will outweigh the legal protections discussed by side government.
So that is to say that even if it is easier to be report, refusing each individual polygamous relationships, the fact that there will be more polygamous relationships means that on that there will be more suffering.
We think that the reason why there will be an increase is you know, very simple, essentially just that in the status quo, even if this is something you're doing behind closed doors, there is a risk of penalty that disincentive vices people from doing and there's also a social stigma associated with it that reduces the amount of marriages.
But we think that both of these go away when you have that government stamp of approval.
But secondly, we think that the abuse associate with polygamy is inherent sexism that this is almost always going to be on one man and several women and we think that the presence of this type of marriage and its proliferation in the public eye redefines the notion that women are he to simply property if man and that itself is a societal norm is inherently problematic, proud to oppose.