I am proud to oppose the motion that we should lower the age of consent, three, independent points first is parental rights.
So I want to establish something quite clearly that the way the status quo looks is that if someone who is under age has sex with someone who is above the age of consent dot bomb by a considerable amount will get to the romeo and juliet laws in a little bit, but like for the mean, time, let's recognize that it's a considerable gap in the status quo.
What happens is the parents make an active decision on whether or not they're going to press charges against that individual.
We think this is important because it ensures that parents have the right to some degree of autonomy over their child sexual activity.
The reason that we often make decisions about whether or not kids can make specific choices for themselves is because they don't have the necessary information about the world in order to have confirmed informed consent that is to say that they understand the implications of what they're doing and as such can agree to those implications, we proxy those decision making powers off to the parents and situations like say where they're going to go to school or whether they go to school things like that in order to ensure that essentially someone who knows their best interests but also understands the world can help them with the decision making process we think that lowering the age of consent then infringes upon this parental rights because it gets rid of the legal mechanism that allows parents to have some say in their child sexual activity, often at such a young age children don't understand the long term consequences of things like unprotected sex sex in a relationship with a power imbalance due to the age gap in other associate it harms as such.
We think it's important to protect that parental right to consent.
Parental right, our second independent point is power imbalances in relationships.
So government talks pretty extensively about romeo and juliet laws I want this to be clear romeo and juliet laws exist in the status quo.
So if a seventeen year old has sacked earth, sixteen year old brother had sex with like an eighteen year old or a nineteen year old that's already legal in most states, I think the difference that's being established on site government is just how low you push the bar you're, not getting rid of the greys own arm on our side the house.
So then I think what's important to recognize is that power imbalances are on that existing relationships can basically chop drastically all over small age range.
So the amount of you know, sexual maturity that an individual has and their knowledge of, you know how relationships work and what consent is is drastically different between say, ages, sixteen and eighteen, we think that it's fundamentally problematic than to push the age of consent is low is government is insisting because we think if you push it down to like sixteen that creates like legal justification for a sixteen year old to say, have sex with like a forty year old that level of power balance is unacceptable.
And we think that it's important to ensure that once this person is free to have sex with someone of any age, they are actually ready to make those decisions and they are capable of no essentially standing up for themselves in situations where they're at agent balance might materialize into a power imbalance.
Our thirty, depending point is the signal that this policy sans so we think that generally the state should look out for the interests of people who think that a lot of the rhetoric surrounding age of consent laws essentially protecting the children that is to signal the people of this age, our children are incapable often of informed consent of their own volition and as such need protection from the state we think that lowering this age of consent sends the signal, the people between sixteen and eighteen don't meet those protections that they are capable of fending for themselves.
We think that often times this isn't true.
So even beyond just the pragmatic impacts of what this policy entails, we think there's a problematic signal sent from the state that then creates a societal discursive shift that is problematic for the individuals that are now going to be are losing their legal protections prod to oppose.