I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish monarchies before getting into my independent points, I'd like to offer a small bit of clarification for the purposes of this debate, I will refer to monarchies like the u k as weak monarchies.
These are monarchies where there's not a lot of central power, making our decision making rather given to the monarch arm.
I will refer to you, sir strong monarchies are as well meanings, countries like saudi arabia countries like qatar where the monarch actually has decision making power that is more or less absolute over the entire country with that two independent points.
The first is that monarchies afford stability.
I think this plays out in very different ways between weak and strong monarchies in week.
Monarchies, this is there a sense of morale.
This is as good of it and it's a cultural point of the country, but I think it's notable that it's not just a historical thing, but this isn't just something that is willis was part of our history.
So we should just continue doing it for the sake of preserving our history.
I don't think that's what it is.
I think it has a modern day value.
But there is this sense of confidence established in your government by some sort of central figure that is often above the fray of politics in about the petty infighting.
And as such it allows people to have a significant amount of confidence in their government.
And I think you can see this in the UK where even if there's a lot of attention between tories in the labor party, you're still going to see a lot of confidence in the queen that's important, because it means that people have a sense of confidence in their government that they feel secure with the country that they're living in that they are happy in this place.
And as a result that they are confident that their government is working to do things that will assess them that peace of mind is valuable, but it's also valuable in mitigating the amount of vitriol that this president politics look to the united states as an example of when this can get extremely out of hand that without that mitigating force things can get out right, dangerous through things like acts of violence as she waited by members of particular parties.
And as a result of that, we think that the monarchy is a reasonable tradeoff, but even looking at strong or monarchies, I think there is still incredible value.
The press in the stability provided there for one thing there is uncertainty in decision making pop pop pop decision making patterns when you looked at something like the united states there's a lot of fluctuation between what's happening on one day or in one election cycle or another over the course of two years, the landscape of who's running the country can shift drastically in the house extreme implications on our foreign policy on our domestic policy on the way people feel about their government that instability is a problem, but secondly, it made a big power cycles.
So what I mean by this is that in democracies are often lots of conflicting forces based on electoral incentives to compel actors to act in ways that they don't actually think it's reasonable a lot of policy makers, for example, will pursue things like that on reasonable protections for condo owners for ridiculous health care policies are and any number of things that people do genuinely understand are bad ideas, but they have a like twirl, incentives driven by people that don't understand the policies very well to make bad decisions.
This isn't true for monarchies, they don't have to act in this way.
They don't have to be accountable to individuals that are an understanding of the ways in which governments work through.
But further more.
They don't have to worry about things like lobbyists because they're above that fray, they don't have to worry about their campaign coffers.
And as a result, moneyed interests don't affect them are second in a pennant briefly independent point briefly as that.
The means by which you would achieve a polishing monarchies are questionable, this isn't going to happen voluntarily.
So I think, really the only way they can accomplish.
This is with some sort of violent revolution generally speaking these because a lot of suffering and a lot of pain, I think, even if you buy that on net, the arguments put forward by gov are slightly preferable, something like the current civil war in syria.
I think that amount of suffering makes it not worth the transition into a slightly better form of government, even if you buy that it is better proud to oppose.