I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should increase racial profiling in airport security in the united states, three independent or two in opponent points.
The first of which is simply accuracy.
I think it is fairly clear from looking at, you know, crime records and statistical records that there is a strong correlation between arms specific ethnic groups and like criminal activity, I think this is also true to an even greater extent of a criminal activity that airports are concerned with a large number of like plane hijackings and bombings and things like that have been committed by individuals of middle eastern descent arm.
And it is notable that this is not because of anything intrinsic to the race.
But rather because of just like particular parts of the world, the correlation with these crimes is obviously much stronger with the point of origin than it is with the actual race itself number alas.
It is not actually possible to, you know, verify point of origin, especially when you know, people that are going to commit the significant crimes, probably how falsified documents given that then the next best proxy is race om.
And this is important off is going to tell you that the the thing we should be doing is basically tracking criminal activity rather than tracking the race.
I think the problem, though, is what we're talking about specifically what we're talking about airport terrorism is arm is really a set of criminals and terrorist organizations that are so refined and tactics that it's not really possible just to track on, you know, indicators like on, you know, whether or not there like holding water bottles or whatever get whatever criminal patterns might, you know, correlate with us with it with airport security issues.
I think one reason for this is just the small dataset that it's difficult to build a statistical model that accurately tracks the behaviors of airport terrorism, but secondly, it's it's it's it's, just not something that's easy to detect because of how he does explicitly it's designed to avoid detection on this is a high impact crime.
And as a result, there is a lot of you know, a lot of care that goes into constructing a criminal profile that is designed to evade on security, and as such, you need proxies they're easier to identify to figure out how you narrow your scope down to a, you know, potential perpetrators and one way to do that that is extremely accurate and correlating with the criminal profile is race arm.
And this brings me to my second point and really beating back, I think what is going to be the main line out of opposition and that's specifically the rights violations I don't think it's reasonable to get past that there are inherently rights violations that are associated with racial profiling.
The problem is that, as is the case with any rights debate you have to weigh this against the high magnitude of the crimes that are going to be perpetrated, something like an airplane bombing or a hijacking puts a lot of people's lives in danger.
So I think it's important then to ensure that you're going to take really, really clear steps to ensure that this does not happen, no matter what the cost arm, you know, stop and frisk is also something that has rights violations on this is yes, it's obviously profiling it's, obviously going to infringe on the arm, you know, this concepts like innocent before proven guilty.
But if the trade off there is, you know, dozens if not hundreds of lives, then I think that's a reasonable trade off that's the more significant goal that we need to work towards is ensuring that access to your right to life, essentially prop to propose.