I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that we should abolish the p five veto power on the security council, two independent points of analysis first that the veto power assures stability and the security council, the u and large, and secondly, that it increases the incentive for clientelism when you get rid of the veto power.
But first, I want to make a note on the framework.
I think it's important to recognize that when god says, oh well there's this issue with membership that some of these people are outdated and then they provide you with structural reasons why it's hard to move this membership around.
I think it's important, recognize that that's probably not true that you can create voting procedures for eliminating or adding members of the sick, odd, like with veto power, much in the same way that we change the membership of the security council on a fairly regular basis.
These are things that change over time.
And I think we already have mechanisms that we apply to other aspects.
The one that sold for those systemic changes pretty well.
So I don't think we would have much difficulty in adjusting for these chefs.
So under the first argument that there is a better stability in a world with a veto power it's important recognize that it ensures that nothing passes that would initiate major conflict within the lab.
What I mean by this is that, for example, a resolution against russia wouldn't do very much actually soul for this type of thing, right, like the US media and like western media at large often reports pretty extensively on things that russia does that are bad it's, not like nobody knew about the invasion of ukraine.
The problem is that when you formalise these things that you and the most significant impact is just irritating prussia and situations that are pretty tons, it can absolutely spark rage.
I think a good example of this is actually what gov breaks up about resolutions against israel in favor of palestine.
Those types of resolutions are very likely to enrage the united states in such a way that could actually lead to conflict in the region, I think, even if it's not an owl out war, even muscle flexing, usually results in death because of brinksmanship and border conflicts and things like that.
So it's key to continued membership as well because nations are likely to leave the you, and if they don't think it works to their advantage, this was talked about extensively in the lead up to the iraq war back in two thousand four.
So I think it's worth recognizing then that the veto power is one of the only things actually ensuring the stability and continuity at the united nations.
So if you think that the windows literally anything that is beneficial to the global structure, it's important to keep the veto in place our second in a pen argument is that increases incentives for clientelism on their side of the house.
Why is this true, so in the status quo, if the US doesn't like something that's coming up to the plate, they can just feet away and it's not an issue anymore on their side, the house, though this actually has to go through what is referred to as our bodies nominally a democratic process.
The problem is that the US actually has a decent amount of states that will just do whatever they tell them to do israel's, obviously they go to example of this, but there are lots and lots of other states that if the US was to just act even a small amount of leverage against them, they would just bow to pressure.
This is true pretty much all the hatch amounts that are on the security council.
China has this power over a lot of members as does russia.
So what happens then when you can't just veto things you don't like is there's an arms race to rack up as many clients as you can to bully as many smaller nations into voting way that results in a lot of harm is that usually means threat of sanctions from both sides.
So you have to choose who's gonna, hurt you less it's worth recognizing them that if they're concerned onside government is ensuring that smaller nations have a say within the global infrastructure and have the ability to avoid punishment from larger nations for stepping out of line, the way to do that isn't incentivizing larger nations to just bully them, whatever they want something to be killed or something house given that I think it's really important to sustain the mechanism that allows these large hegemon to get their way with out of like knocking down the smaller nations along the way proud to oppose.