I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that we should legalize cannabis for recreational purposes.
So I think three to eleven argument.
Sorry, first is that there medical harms intrinsic to usage of recreational marijuana that there's a significant government interest in combating the proliferation of this medical arms.
And secondly, that it distorts the medical industry from a financial perspective that means that people who need this medically that is the people who for for which you live usages, most legitimate, are the ones who disproportionately suffer under this policy.
So on the first argument that their medical harms intrinsic to recreational use, I think this is there's a couple ways this plays out so cognitive problems, for example, like there are tons of studies out there that demonstrate that there is very damaging terms of long term memory short term memory brain cell generation, all sorts of issues that are intrinsic to systemic or to repeated use.
But secondly that these harms are disproportionately internalized by children that when you have the developing brain, this is something that is, you know, more likely to happen all so and also beyond this, there is like very little access to information regarding these hospital guidance about minimum and so why is the government justified that in restricting on this basis five reasons first, you just decreased not suffer right like it.
There is a medical harm that is intrinsic to the usage of the item that less people suffer with less people use.
It is intuitively true.
The recreational market means more usage happens because you legality is actually a barrier to purchasing like when someone makes that calculus and deciding am I going to smoke this or not like going to go out and buy this or not generally speaking, it is more likely that person will decide know if there is a risk of like four rastra fight or something if they do so secondly, consent is not always meaningful into doing this.
This is because there is like less imperfect access to information regarding the harms of the item on even under a legal structure.
I think tobacco is a good example of this where there is usually dislike meaningful distortion of facts by the industry producing the good third is that they are sometimes externalities that this uses that are not just medical.
So I think a good example of this is still driving work people who didn't consent into the consumption of the item people that are just innocent bystanders have to internalize the harms that are intrinsic to the consumption of the item for this public health cost.
So insurance is a good example of something that happens right when this is a legal item.
Insurance companies under, you know, things like pre existing condition, lawson, like right to choose laws and things like that cannot deny people coverage on the basis that they smoke pot that's important because it means the premiums go up because there are more things that insurance companies have to solve for when you have to internalize the harms that are created on the public health network by the people who are smoking pot, it disproportionately likely to have medical complications society at large has to bear those burdens because of the increased premiums you have to get the money from somewhere and fifth is that it is a gateway drug.
I think gov tries to preempt this by being like the black market has more gateway opportunities because the nature of the transaction I think you can just wait this out with the scope of consumption that more people smoke on their side houses result, you get more gateway activity on their side of the house.
My second argument is that distorts the medical industry because there's now a financial incentive to pump money into researching recreational strains of marijuana, because the pay off is bigger.
I think, is intuitively true like there are generally going to be people that often like generally the marketing people that we can see what a recreational basis is larger than the medical industry so there's a financial incentive to prioritize the recreational industry that's a problem because that researches zero sob tooth always going to come at the expense of the people that need it for medical purposes, and we should always prioritize the people that need access to this substance you most at the highest rate to oppose.