I am proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should further exploit wind power generally speaking, we interpret this to mean that we should invest more money into building the infrastructure, intrinsic to wind power, so building more wind turbines that sort of thing and connecting it to the general infrastructure, two independent points first is the cheap nature in the long term of renewable energy.
When we look at the type of energy infrastructure that currently is the dominant factor in most countries fossil fuels.
This is something that is both unsustainable and expensive it's, expensive because there's a lot of steps intrinsic to using this type of possible fueled art network that is you have to extract the energy from the ground.
You have to ship the physical product to the place where it's going to be used, you have to build in higher plants that are designed to actually conferred that item into energy.
This is a complicated and costly project and wall right now, it's relatively cheap because these items are in abundance, and because the technology is well developed the long term looks much better for renewable energy, this isn't just because it's like a thing that reduce itself that once you build the wind turbine, it just continues producing.
So the long term costs are lower it's also because well, firstly, it's because you don't have to have that like physical thing you're moving around.
So you don't have to deal with those costs.
Secondly, it's, because in the long term you develop the technologies to an extent that the current barriers aren't very meaningful.
So wallef right now, affordable solar technology, an affordable when technology more importantly, aren't, particularly affordable, if you research at the become affordable, but most importantly, if you actually want like something that's going to continue providing energy to you fifty years from now, finite resources that are rapidly depleting aren't going to do the job you're, not going to have a sustainable infrastructure for your energy needs if you are relying on something that will cease to exist within the next few decades, we think wind energy gives you a leg up on those renewables that allow you to have a sustainable infrastructure in the long term.
Our second independent point is global warming.
So broadly speaking, we don't think there's enough time in this speech to actually flush out the warrants used to why global warming is true we'll just leave it at the fact that ninety seven percent of scientists agree that this is the thing and that generally speaking the climate science that explains the impacts of global warming is an overwhelming consensus.
Most scientists agree that this is a thing that exists and is very, very bad for the planet when we're talking about those impacts were talking about things like rising sea levels that will destroy the coastal and habitations we're talking about things like changing weather patterns that threaten the lives of millions of not billions of people around the world, we're talking about weather pattern changes that will cause mass extinction among animals.
These are huge existential threats to humanity and to other species on this planet.
This is a thing worth avoiding, and the thing that is contributing to it is fossil fuels and other types of greenhouse gases.
So things like methane in things like carbon dioxide that are produced by these types of fuels are a large driving factor in why global temperatures are rising, if we can mitigate the rate at which we put these types of harmful chemicals into our atmosphere, that's always going to be a good thing like even if we can't stop lobel warming dead in its tracks, mitigating the significant impacts of it is always going to be a positive thing for the world as such more meaningful investments in wind technology will always come in a zero sum cost to track the amount we are investing in fossil fuels.
Obviously, if we are putting the like political energy into creating sustainable energy infrastructure, it will presumably have ripple effects throughout our entire system given that we think that this creates a better environment for the future proud to propose.