I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should further exploit.
Hydroelectric dams, my first independent point is that hydroelectric dams, disrupt the local ecosystem.
Ask of points out on there is significant impact on the local environment, particularly the river itself generated by the presence of a hydroelectric dam.
The gulf of example of this is our migratory fish, but we think it's actually much more profound than that.
You think that specifically the flow rate of an individual river can affect things like whether or not animals can beat and drink from that with her wit river.
We think it it shapes the actual landscape down river because river speed determines whether or not it washes up sand in a particular way, or if carves out land in a particular way to form a deeper river basin and as such entire ecosystems, not just within the river that rely on the river itself to move.
But also so rivers, sir surrounding ecosystem supported by the river, such as say, like bears or something that live nearby are heavily dependent on a precise flow rate at the river.
We think that that when one introduces a hydroelectric dam, this has a profound impact on the ecosystem.
This is important for two reasons.
First, we believe that in any damages sustained by wildlife in of themselves are problematic because we believe that it's important to mitigate animal suffering, we think that rights are derived largely from whether or not being has preferences that is to say whether or not it can say that is painful.
I don't want to happen to me at that point then we think it's important to preserve thought, you know, animal life arm and access to, you know, good water food that sort of thing to ensure it has a healthy and happy life.
But secondly, we think that preserving ecosystems is important even from human centric position because large amounts of things like that humans derive from the ecosystem are reliant on its stability, things like food and things like research these sorts of things are heavily disrupted when the ecosystem itself is disrupted, because even minor changes can cause large chain reactions in food chains and in life support systems like rivers, our second independent point is that a hydroelectric dams have comparatively lower employment rates than other forms of energy, including renewable energy.
At that point.
We think that contrary to governments model, we should do you prioritize construction of thumb, energy infrastructures, an important employer it largely because of how much staffing it often requires things like, say, nuclear power, plants require a large amount of people constantly staffing it to ensure that you know, things don't go wrong, and we think that's important because it provides people with jobs.
This is, of course, you know the life blood of any economy is ensuring that people have the capital to buy things so that the wheels can keep turning how do you let your dams have low employment rates, though precisely because of the benefits touted by side government that they run it more or less automatically and really only need occasional maintenance from high skilled workers that's a problem because as compared to something like, say, nuclear power or lake say, solar power, there isn't a lot of day to day maintenance, there, isn't a need for a large employment staff.
And as a result, we think that even if energy costs are slightly higher without hydroelectric power, there is a significantly higher impact on the broader economy by the lower employment rates generated by this form of technology.
Our third and final independent point is that this is simply an eyesore.
So we think that a lot of favors particularly run to scenic areas that have both cultural and dot more tourism related reasons for maintaining their beauty.
Hydroelectric dams are often large on we'll be and not very pleasant to look at and because they're situated on rivers, they're often, but creating an eyesore in the most beautiful part of the landscape.
We think then that because he there are preferences in the locals to keep these areas looking the way that they look and be there more fiscal reasons tied to things like the tourism industry, it's problematic to create large eyesores like this proud to oppose.