I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban human.
Cloning.
Our first independent point is the spillover technology associated with human cloning.
So we think that when you're talking about, you know, creating a new human arm in a test tube or whatever lab environment you're looking at all there's, a lotta sue seated with that process, that's important understanding the human body at a very fundamental level, much in the way the research for things like, say going to the moon don't necessarily have to have a u intrinsic endpoint game or value because the research that's conducted along the way often leads to benefits.
We think that human cloning would have profound impacts on our medical understanding of the human body.
We think that the ability to generate an entire human being would also heal technology, relating to, you know, generation of limbs or other body parts that people might be missing this could solve for the organ donation shortage that many countries experience this could solve for, you know, the need for prosthetics, which are often on wheel the and comparatively less valuable than just having a limit the first place we think then that even if you buy all of government's arguments about the suffering in dork by clones, we think that there are massive impacts on the medical community and medical research in a way that greatly outweighs it.
This is true for two reasons.
First, we think that the rights of clones are questionable arm at the point where we derive human rights, you know, from a specifically human centric perspective, we often, for example, don't extend the same rights to animals as we do to humans.
We think there is something and made about membership in humanity that gives you rights at that point then we think it is unlikely that people will value clones is like having individual rights.
But secondly, we think this is more signet a more significant issue because we believe that there are just going to be like more regular people then there will be clones, especially in the early days, be a much in the clones will be incredibly expensive to develop so given that we think then that the the medical benefits associated with it will benefit billions of people, whereas on the rights infringements upon clones will be relatively minimal to do the small number of clinton's our second independent point is that we think that this could literally just make for better people.
So god has like a lot of hand wringing over whether or not on, you know, companies or firms or whatever going to self select for traits that they find desirable.
I think that this is probably a good thing, though, because a lot of the times the traits that would be selected for are traits that are generally pretty widely accepted as good things by society like for all the hand wringing about like eugenics or whatever I think the comparative here is that we're not going to our radic heat.
The people that have traits were trying to root out will obviously still continue to provide for people that, for example, have heart conditions at birth, but we also think that it's nice to have a system, wherein we can genetically select for genes that make you less likely to have heart conditions at that point.
And we think that the select a the research associate with cloning can make this an easier process but be that by creating clones that are biologically comparable to humans, we can literally just have clones enter the gene pool and like create a gene pool that gonna reduces the number of people with, you know, medical complications at birth and that sort of thing our third and final in dependent point is that we think the clones have utility in and of themselves.
So I think a lot of what I've discussed already kinda demonstrates this at a very big scalable, but we think even at an individual level clones can just make for a better society om.
I think much like, say in like brave new world there's like a world where you can just make clones that aren't necessarily self aware that are almost like animals to an extent.
And at that point, then we think a lot of the labor benefits that you want her from having clones at a cheap low level are fairly acceptable arm because they would have a right structure that's relatively comparable to apples, but we also think that that utility to arise from the fact that you're essentially telling a few clones super humans that they have to sort of sacrifice their rights for the good of the for the greater good.
And we think that infringement of rights upon a select group of clones is sick, makes it worth the op vast benefits that would be brought to humanity project oppose.