I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should lower the age of consent with regards to the model.
I think generally speaking across countries.
There are variations in what the exact age of consent is for the sake of this debate.
I will assume that the age of consent is generally around eighteen, but there is obviously some degree of fluctuation that said that fluctuation probably doesn't matter terribly much because the fluctuation is largely a product of social conventions that will determine what how we child is treated in their early age and generally speaking, those distinct ages should reflect the way the society treats children such that they will generally be ready by that age that said, I think screen too in a kind of points demonstrate why there are structural reasons that ages of consent or set to high.
So the first independent point is that the structural reasons prevent consensual relationships so generally speaking the capacity to engage in a consensual relationship exists at a fairly early age.
This is for a couple reasons.
I think one is that modern media has involved in such a way that has allowed children to are not children but has allowed like younger individuals to understand that the complexities of sexual interaction at a comparatively earlier age than it was previously the case.
And I think then the structural problem becomes that age of consent laws have not adapted to this changing culture that despite the fact that people are generally under a generally have an understanding of what sexual interaction constitutes and what the risks are at a much earlier age than they used to.
We still have not changed those age laws.
And as a result, they are higher today all.
But secondly, I think it's important to recognize the harms that are did originate from when these laws are made these age limits are too high suit, sexual expression is something that is key to an individual's identity.
I think it is almost intuitively true that it's something people care a lot about it, but it's also something that shapes a lot of our decision making the people care deeply enough about this that they're willing to make really significant sacrifices for sexual interaction.
And I think that's a significant point because generally whether or not someone is valuing individual did end as something that they care very deeply about that's pretty much our best proxy for whether or not it's key to their identity that based on their capacity to engage in sexual relationships, they shape perceptions of their self worth they shape their priorities of what they're going to do with their life.
This is something that's really significant to an individual, and I think depriving them of the capacity to capitalize upon that aspect that their identity is something that generate significant harm.
But secondly, I just want to point out that these laws are often ineffective it doing what they're designed to do.
I think the reason that we have age of consent laws in the first place is that we recognize that at a very young age do not understand that the ramifications of of sax, but I think I've demonstrated why it generally speaking, we have ages there too high in terms of the bright light of when we should allow them to consent into this.
I think the other reason the why these laws exist is that their power asymmetries intrinsic between relationships between extremely young individuals and comparatively older individuals, I think the problem though, is that having an age of consent doesn't do a particularly good job of preventing these days relationships that have distinct power dynamics.
And the reason for this is something that's actually quite similar to wipe out affiliate existed within the catholic church that when there is that power dynamic a cover up getting the victim to not really speak up is quite easy.
So I think that having that age of consent doesn't actually do very much to ensure that the person will be punished and doesn't do very much to disincentive ISIS problematic relationships as a result, the laws don't do what they're going to do prop to propose.