I practiced in a proposition of today's motion that we should ban that we should legalize same sex marriage.
I think the model for this pretty intuitive right, just like the government should just recognize same sex unions in that you just change the definition of marriage from a man and a woman to just two individuals who consent into the marriage three independent points on the s first that autonomy is something we should respect, including for gay people.
Secondly, that bans on gay marriage increased incidences of homophobia and thirdly, that there not be a surprise, separation of church and state and in so far as the opposition to gay marriage is largely religiously based we should recognize that like this is a poor reason to oppose gay marriage.
So first I'm, not calling me, I think it's worth recognizing that autonomy is a good thing.
It is the most fundamental right that we house.
The reason why we care about life is that we can do things or not like condemned to slavery right.
The reason that we care about our health is because that enables us to actually how decisions are like the ability to do the things that we want to do autonomy to the maximum extent is always going to be good in a vacuum when the government is justified in infringing on autonomy it's because I'll tell me comes into conflict with someone else's autonomy.
So like murder, for example, is banned because we recognize that when one person kills another person that limits the person who is killed autonomy to a large extent.
So we look at these two things that we say, oh okay, well, you know your right to kill someone is a lot less important than your would like right to just be alive.
So we restrict the thing that restricts the other person's autonomy, so there has to be an externality to an action, a way in which somebody else suffers or his house.
There are a ton of the limited as a result of your actions in order to for a band to be justified.
The problem is that gay marriage doesn't have externalities.
People aren't affected by this right, like if I engage in a union with another man, someone standing down the street or someone else in society isn't affected by that union in a meaningful way.
And even if they are like peeved by it, or they find themselves made slightly uncomfortable.
We think that is a much less significant harm the harms that will be in acted upon myself and my partner by not being able to engage aloft like union.
That leads me to my second point that instances of homophobia in harm's upon gay individuals are magnified by it.
And this is true for three reasons.
So what law broadly that it normalizes homophobia that it normalizes the idea that being gay is like the other, it is not acceptable within mainstream society.
So three harms to bat first increases instances of assault and discrimination because it normalizes the idea that gay people or the other and that you can treat them like the author that you can engage in housing discrimination that you consult on the street, things like that.
So when you take down the veil, when you say no, it is okay for these people enter into legal unions, you take down the legal basis are it leaves the societally justified basis for why it is okay to discriminate against gay people.
Second is a creates identity crisis of my psyche, especially young gay people that they think that this thing that they experience that is completely natural, completely acceptable does affect other people's lives in another way isn't.
Okay, because society has told us all okay, because there are these legal signals that their identity is wrong so recognize that and that that is a harm there is massive psychological trauma associated with that that is what I like suicide among skate teens is so massively massively high thirdly, when you push people into the fringe of society, their harms intrinsic to that.
So like, for example, how like a lot of gay people used to have to be prostitutes like in the year of the eighties and even today to a large extent because they are put to the fringes of society and are told you are not good enough to be with him like a normal context is this idea actors at a a normal member of that society.
So the third in a kind of when I like to advance is the separation church and state by that's intrinsically good thing like recognize the opposition to gay marriage is largely religiously based that there's like some textual arguments about this my christianity, particularly but it's important that the state shouldn't be involved with it election make policy decisions on a religious basis entrant fever particular religions or even religiosity in general, when compared to secularism because that necessarily favors one group in society over it author it's for this reason these reasons rather that it stop important recognize that the opposition to this policy is fairly ridiculous proud to propose.