I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion at the intercontinental, actual property rights should be abolished, a free independent points first that it reduces the incentive to create second, the principally we deserve the products of our own labor.
And thirdly, the international competition will likely punish countries that do this to an extreme extent.
So all the first argument that it reduces the incentive to create, I think this is hinted at in god's arguments where they are like all will, you know, some people say that I think people say are for pretty good reason, right, like we're recognize it like if you are a person producing medicine like if you are a pharmaceutical company, you just don't have an incentive to create that medicine because you're investing billions of dollars into it.
And then, as soon as you like, actually put this thing on the market someone's going to release a knock off of it like steel up like half of your market share, possibly more and you're the one that has to burn the entire cost of production in the first place you literally don't make enough money to make up for the initial expenditures that allow you to engage in the production of this medicine, that's really important.
Because when they talk about patent trolls are price gouging, or anything like that that easy with the terminal harm of that one hundred percent of time is just not accessing the medicine, but that doesn't happen always right there, instances it, wherein we avoid these realities by the products are able to reach consumers at a reasonable by the comparative then where the products just don't get produced in the first place that means that by definition, you are always going to have less access to these lifesaving drugs.
You are always going to have less access to any product that is protected by intellectual property rights to the systemically important to or the existence of record to our society given that I think the worst case scenario is always realized on their side of the house, because the actual fundamental incentives of a corporation to make money are violated by the passage of this motion.
And as a result, you just lose your infrastructure necessary to create these things.
My second independent argument is that principally people should just happened like a property rights because they created these things on government.
They try to tell you over, you know, things like music, for example, are like the composite of likely long, long kinds of history and like work that came before it, I think there's a couple problems with us first is that the way we combine things is it itself unique right, like I pick up a rock and pick up some water, and I make some cool thing of the combination of those two things that is the meaning flee new thing, and I put in labor.
I use my ingenuity to create that new thing.
So is right worth recognizing that this isn't the property of the people that might of created the rock or the water or whatever this is my thing because I made this unique item, and I actually put in meaningful input, the change the landscape.
So combination is something that is deserving of a of an ownership claim but also recognize that the most blatant examples of this like, say sampling for example, in music do require you to actually pay money to the person that initially created the things like a lot of the time, the way we combine things requires payments to those who came before us.
So I think the status quo is perfectly capable of solving for the harms that are described by side government right, but I don't even more fundamental level.
I just deserve my own work.
I put nothing into it like.
I actually utilize my own labor and time and resources and money or whatever.
And that means that I actually am entitled to the existence of this to the ownership over this thing that I created that.
This is mine at the most fundamental level.
Our autonomy is contingent on the idea that we actually maintain ownership over our own things of our own creations, because that is what allows us to act reasonably within this world.
How we are ownership of a property is literally how we maintain agency because we are able to protect ourselves with our property.
The last argument I'd like to advance that is international competition.
I think this is unclear by the model, whether or not international competition is a thing because like it's unclear if just one country's doing this, but recognize that if just one country's doing this is a terrible idea because your products are lower protected, but everybody else is too great, a massive market disincentive, I diss just destroy your economy and so far you have no capacity to compete in the international market.
And as a result, all this ingenuity, all these things that matter so deeply decide, government just go out the window once you don't have this protection in your own labor force in your own party, up your own production capacity to oppose.