We believe that banning cosmetic surgeries harm both the principle of autonomy over one's body and people's identities that first of all, we think that we should distinguish cases of true deformities or for instance, procedures that are meant to restore one's previous looks after he suffered an injury that resulted in some deformities side government doesn't, say anything to that effect all the talk about this botox and like breast enhancement surgeries, obviously, we think that that is a huge impact on the debate and a huge heart that they do not addressed at all moving on.
They talk about how this medic surgery enhances the model of beauty in all of its harm to society.
We wonder therefore are they also in favor of banning make up high heels, what about liposuction surgeries, what about going to the dentist to make your teeth whiter, but about tattoos we say that all of these examples are also like following from the logic of the analysis of side government.
Moreover, they talk about the financial costs and how not everyone can afford it and those who do are able to afford it and need to spend a fortune on it.
Obviously this is true to so many things that it would be impossible to even count people spend a fortune on designer clothes on fancy cars in ways that don't make any sense other like.
But for the fact that this is some some some sort of like a status that gives them like social capital now that too is is based on social norms that aren't necessarily rational, but we do not think that the government can even imagine saying that because this is expensive and some people can't afford this.
This is a good enough reason order to ban access to all of these things all to get onto the constructive.
We see that even if there is truth to the ideal of the government, they have to explain.
They have the burden to explain why they think that it's legitimate to force a lot of people to suffer through a miserable life in which they feel very much uncomfortable in their own skin.
In order to serve this ideal say that I was born with a disfigurement of some sort that makes me ashamed or in secure.
Now, even if in a perfect world, this shouldn't have bothered me.
The fact is that we don't live in a perfect world, and the government doesn't really give us any type of convincing mechanism to believe that in a world without this medic surgeries.
This thing is going to change drastically and that people would stop judging each other according like based on how they look.
So why should I pay the price for that it's not my fault.
We say that a person's look is eight and like a very basic elements in his identity it's out in the open it's, the first thing that people notice about you whether we like it or not our appearance, deeply affect our life, the options that we're going to have the type of connections that we're going to make with other people now and he argued that this has become too extreme because of the model of beauty but that's a reality that is unlikely going to change because people are just programmed by nature to be attracted to or to be like not attracted to people based on their appearance.
For all these reasons we say that most people are concerned about how how they look and they want to look as good as they can.
So we say that when a person is unhappy with a certain feature of his appearance, this can massively harm his his like feeling of self worth and self confidence you feel trapped in your own body and there's no escape.
This is a feeling of shame that escorts you everywhere you go even when you are alone, every mirror mirror becomes your enemy.
In fact, we say that it's kind of like people that that feel that they were born to the wrong sex and the government wants to force them to continue on living this way, even though the solution is available, is the solution affect either no problems with it, obviously no it's a debate that's deciding for these people that are interested in it that's the cost is too high for them, it's just incredibly patronizing and not something that side government can simply decide for all these reasons we take you to oppose.