We should ban trance that usage, and through for the sake of this debate were willing to acknowledge that trance fat is delicious.
But the core question of this debate is whether it's legitimate to make a choice for the citizens to narrow down the amount of their options.
We believe that in this specific case off trance that the answer is yes, two arguments, one when is it possible to intervene in individuals choice and to harm to society and not only to the user.
So first arguments in general, we support the rule according to which the state can't take decisions for the individual just to prevent them from doing lake from harming themselves that this rule has its exceptions.
For instance, we banned many times substances that are effective like heroin or cocaine because they are deadly like they are a deadly combination of both he serious physical harm to the person using them and they're physically addictive in that particular situation, the ability to treat the user as an individual with a free choice disappears once a certain substance makes you physically dependent on it and there's not much point in discussing choice.
Another exception is, for instance, when we force people to wear seat belts, even if they are driving alone in this case, we can simply see that the level of intervention is very small it's, not aggressive or intrusive just something that needs a bit of getting used to and that's it, but the benefits that arise from this action are huge and so even though we're principally against intervening we're not going to be the vatican, we don't mind doing doing.
So in this particular case, when discussing trans fats we think both these exceptions are relevant.
Firstly, trans fat is physically addictive and extremely dangerous to one's health.
This is why by the way it's not enough to just to try and educate the public about the risks of and healthy eating informing the public isn't good enough when it comes to addictive substances.
Secondly, there are very good and healthy and cheap alternatives.
So all it would take is just to get used to eating less fatty fast food, the level of intervention here, isn't sirius, but the harm that's being prevented is huge bottom line.
The principle of individual liberty is great, but it must have its limits.
We can't cling onto it while completely ignoring the benefits.
Second argument I'm just society.
So even if I fail in convincing you that sometimes we must intervene just to prevent people from harming themselves clearly you'd agree that we can't intervene to protect to prevent harm from others trans fats are not only harming whoever consumes them, but they're also a huge threats to the entire society, we've obesity on the rise and heart disease is the main source of mortality in the western world more and more people are becoming too ill to work and are required to undergo treatments that form a huge burden on the entire economy society has a collective interest in safe, keeping its citizens health.
So even if it's a free choice, when a man chooses to harm his his own health, he harms his productivity as well and the entire society is built upon reciprocating conductivity, therefore he's harming his entire surroundings.
Now, if course that on an individual level, every trance that either is new collectible, but on the aggregate level, we already reached a serious problem.
This surely gives us all the legitimacy we need to intervene.
So for all these reasons, please propose.