Fool me once shame on you fool me, twice shame on me, for me, three times double shame on me.
We say that if the state was in successful in rehabilitating, someone after getting a two shots already, then his third offense is just as much as the state's fault as it is his own and it's unfair and unreasonable to have him suffer all the consequences.
And all the blame two arguments in this speech.
First, why this proposition disproportionately targets in harm's disenfranchised groups and be why this would prove ineffective and an effective tool in creating the terence rendering the three strike system, both unjustified and unsuccessful at what it's trying to achieve.
So first argument all over the world, prisons are disproportionately filled with minority population.
This correlation gets even stronger when it comes to be offenders so it's immediately clear to us that these groups are going to be affected from this proposition most of all, but why is that we say there are three reasons firstly, necessity when I literally have no other option when all else fails and I need to bring food to the table somehow that I resort to stealing money or stealing food.
Secondly, neglect from the government and society, if I grew up in a poor neighborhood, where all the buildings are ugly and all the schools are shitty and I look around and see neighboring areas that have it way better than me.
I can't help but feel left behind.
And I start asking myself.
Why should I abide by the rules they don't have my back.
Why should I answer to them.
And thirdly, and most unfortunate reason is profiling and biased treatment of that law authorities minority population suffer from more sufficient in the court system or police officers patrolling the streets performing random arrests.
And so on this obviously leads directly to more arrests, but also indirectly tips into this distrust in the system that we've mentioned and creates more crime in an indirect way.
So this is a cycle that feeds itself.
These are all things that don't change after you get locked up notice when you return to your neighborhood, if anything they get change for the worse, your financial situation might be worse than before your resentment for society might be bigger.
So we see that crime in general and recurring crime specifically is the consequence of social passes it's, so convenient for us to believe but of ongoing institutional failures that we all have a part in.
Therefore, we say that society has a contributory guilt in this, and as such it is impossible to offer a solution of giving up on these people, declaring them a lost cause and locking them up for ever the only fair solution would require understanding that these are people with true hardships that the system over looked and we really need to pay attention to we can attach parole officers.
We can send more social workers, etcetera.
It is so convenient for the well off majority to simply tap criminals as monsters and lock them up lock them away from us and feel more secure.
But these are real people whose lives are being destroyed here this summer, there's somebody's, son, it's, unfair and unjust let's move on to talk about why the tears doesn't work let's clarify something this debate is not about murder or rape, but rather theft and robbery why because if you're caught raping or murdering, then the punishment is usually very long, so with third offense is less likely.
So opposition might say, you know what we're more obligated to innocent people than people who committed crimes time and again, and this helped the tear crime keeps people safe.
So we should do it this entire idea assumes that these crimes are a consequence of your rational judgment is if people calculate the probabilities in way pros and cons, but we say that this doesn't work in cases of crimes that are due to lack of options, and as we saw specifically for re offenders, robbery and theft are exactly such crime more over.
We think that the clear message to these communities if this law passes is that the state finally gave up on them for good, this state that always like we always knew that the state doesn't really give a damn about us now doesn't even see us as human beings anymore, this only enhances the hatred that the feel and the chances for more crime kids have to see their father getting locked up for life for trying to get them a new pair of bikes, how can they ever be expected to show respect for the police.
So maybe we put one dangerous person off the street, but at that very moment, we created three more potentially dangerous people.
So for all of these reasons, please propose.