Ladies and gentlemen, we have an interesting opposition line for you today, let's see how this goes.
We fully accept that there is a problem with beauty pageants in the status quo.
But unlike proposition we do not think that the root of the problem lies with objectification itself, but rather with the inequality or the disproportion now that the off that objectification and that is what we aim to fix that's right, rather than less female beauty pageants, we offer more dominance to male beauty, pageants and male objectification in general, we believe that true liberation for women means having them treated equally for decades, we've tried to achieve that goal by changing our approach or the way that we treat women.
This has worked partially and very slowly and I'm like we would have wanted perhaps it's time to change our approach and change the way that we treat men specifically, we advocate in this debate the already existing and rapidly growing phenomenon of things like chippendales backstreet boys, one direction and justin bieber now, here's something that I never thought that I would say, truly our line is simple.
We simply say that people are naturally attracted to beauty.
We are programmed to rate the other sex based on appearance.
This is true to both men and women.
The problem is that for centuries, male dominance, his lead to our society to a situation in which it is no longer socially acceptable for women to publicly rate men on their appearance, whereas to mend this is still considered.
Okay in this points, we are required to choose between waging war against human nature, one that we that would be basically impossible for us to win because it's a war against our nature or harnessing our nature to obtain our my word purpose.
Why do we think that the second option is better because the true problem today is that met many men feel that they can appreciate women's solely based on their appearance, but in a world where men and women are being objectified left and right, we say that men no longer have the privilege off their cheap labor, genders and that of their gender being considered superior.
There is this perceived the quality that trickles down to the minds of men and women alike.
This is obviously a gradual situation, but we believe that then within a few generations, we will most definitely be there.
As a result.
We think that society would have no choice, but to change in such a way that no one is rated is no one is making no one solely based on appearance, but based on also appearance alongside smarts and capabilities.
And every other thing that be would what would like people to be valued by why why is this true because society needs those metrics and it will never allow a situation where everyone are being rated and ranked solely based on appearance.
So at the point in which there is no longer one sex that we can objectify and another six that's being that's being valued by other parameters, we say that everyone is going to be judged by all of the parameters.
So if you guys ever want to truly achieve real equality for women who have to oppose this motion.