Obviously the legal system isn't perfect and is incapable of always delivering justice purely it will never be able to do that that doesn't mean that we shouldn't try and maximize the justice in pursuit of truth, but we have to understand that there's a very dangerous trade off here that the more power, the more absolute power, we grants the state in pursuing truth and justice, the more chances of creating greater injustice.
This is why the system is built in such a way that limits the power of the government and the state out of the understanding that this asymmetry powers can create distortions and allow people in positions of power to do almost everything they wish this is why we don't allow evidence that were unlawfully obtains to be submitted in the court, even if they might help us reveal the truth.
This is also why we limited the ability of the state to put its citizens in double jeopardy.
And yes, this means that in some cases we will not be able to catch bad guys, but that simply worth the risk we need to say, though that there are very few cases in reality off guilty defendants that are able to beat the system and get fully acquitted.
Everyone can cite the names of OJ simpson or bill cosby, but it's exactly because these are such rare instances that they became so famous how do I know this because the national conviction rates in criminal felonies is above ninety percent well about it.
This means that it's incredibly rare next to impossible to avoid conviction once charges have been pressed against you no matter how good your lawyer is chances are against the defendant, do we really think that ninety something percent of defendants are guilty people I doubt that given this is really unclear to me what is this so pressing problem that side government season, the status quo that would require such a drastic amendment to one of the core tenants of the constitution and would require went even more power to the already too powerful public prosecution.
We hear that it does more harm to allow guilty men, walk around free, then to judge and try to try innocent men twice, we disagree.
We disagree both because we really don't accept this assumption that if you are truly innocent, then it's likely that you'll be found so a second time, because as rachel says the system is flawed it's far from being perfect in pursuing truth.
So in the second time or third time a fourth time at some point, people break, they no longer have the time or the money or the strength to keep on fighting for their innocence and the state will always have much more stamina and resources to continue fighting.
So once the state sets its aim on convicting someone because if we never rest until we managed to do so, we also though we like, regardless of whether you're innocent or not to be, we still disagree with this claim.
We think that it's truly morally unjust when a criminal walks around free if he was never caught and put on trial but given that we have caught this man and we have tried him, and we were simply unable to convict him for whatever reason the system did all that it could it doesn't mean that it's good that he now walks around in the street.
But this is not also not a violation of rights as rachel would have you believe.
Meanwhile, we say that putting people through the entire process of a criminal trial where your name and your reputation are smeared your career is over your family if your social life gets hurt badly, you were forced to spend a fortune after winning, you would have to face all of this again.
In our opinion.
This is a grave injustice, and this is a moral, you know, what's even if you are guilty, and then rachel says that people will start losing trust in the system and will start breaking laws, but they see that the system is unable to catch and lock up the bad guys.
So the first answer is this is the classic example of a slippery slope.
We would love to hear one example in which chaos and crime hit the streets due to double jeopardy, people don't abandon so quickly the concept of the rule of law and just take matters in their own hands.
I know this is an argument that we sometimes like to say in debate land, but it's simply untrue.
This system is deeply ingrained in our consciousness.
Most people cannot imagine a world without a country or the courts or the rule of law.
Second answer here is that if anything can create is the public panic is to see that the criminal system harasses people who were already found innocent ones and we tried them over and over people can save themselves jesus, this man's life is ruined now, and it could have just as easily been me if anything that's the kind of thing that could turn people much more, we read suspicious towards the authorities.
So for all these reasons, we are very proud to oppose.