I think that the prime minister has been a little unfair or at the very least unclear enough in his definition of what we are debating here, because his entire speech focuses on how we must they make better make short work better enforced that the people who were being granted asylum are standing up to the criteria for who actually deserves it and that's, you know, ordinary immigrants are just taking advantage of this by falsely pretending to be worthy of the silence, and we totally agree.
We don't have any interest in people being granted, a silence without them actually deserving it.
The thing is that in today's reality with the ongoing civil war in syria, there truly is a significant rise in refugees that do stand up to the criterion that do actually deserve it.
So I think that's it is signed government's burden in this debate to defend things like sitting stricter quotas of exactly how many asylums are granted that are necessarily going to leave out certain refugees that do deserve it, not just to say that we need to better look out for fraudulent claims because this is just simply pretty obvious, so it is in this light that we turn now to answer side government's claims first, they tell us that the government needs to first and foremost look out for its own citizens and that the influx of unskilled labor is harmful for the economy and comes at the expense of the citizens.
So the first answer here is that we are just I'm sure that it truly is harmful for the economy, even if it is unskilled labor as long as we strive to make them fit in and help them find jobs, they certainly might contribute to the economy.
Just like any other form of unskilled foreign labor.
You know, researchers looking into this question today are at the very least undecided if not even actually leaning in favor of it.
And we mustn't forget that america has been billed as a safe haven for immigrants and refugees that were fleeing harsh circumstances.
And it emerged as the free world's leading superpower.
Second answer here is that even if it is a burden to some degree, we think that be simply cannot just ignore the moral meaning off sealing the gates it's true that the country is obligated to the well being of its citizens.
But this is not an absolute principle day totally that is to say it doesn't mean that we can justify complete indifference to the unbearable misery of other people just because this will create mild inconvenience to our citizens.
And the third answer is that we think that's the foreign policy of the west in general in the united states specifically has a hand in bringing upon the horrific situation in syria by refusing to intervene in time and by succeeding the control over to russia that is backing aside, the very least that we can do is not to meet these refugees fleeing there with a shrug and a cold shoulder.
The next thing that we hear is that people will take advantage and cheeks.
Well there is there are always people that will take advantage of loopholes.
This is just a part of reality, but again, we are totally in favor of taking whatever step is necessary to minimize this.
Lastly, they tell us that if we want limits the asylum's now and populist leaders will take care of getting rid of it altogether a leader, and we think that this logic is basically just giving up to populace, and we think that if anything it is the other way around if we start compromising on our principles now he will be that much easier to get rid of them completely later besides we think that populist leaders like trump don't really concern themselves with the facts and the correct data of just how much asylums are being granted to date.
This is what makes them populace.
This means that no matter how much a silent it we're going to grant trump will always exaggerate and blow up the numbers in order to serve his own message.
So what side government is proposing makes very little difference.
Look we've already shut down the doors before to refugees like, for instance, jewish refugee refugees escaping persecution and mass murder in europe that is one of the most shameful episodes in american history, let's, not repeat the same policies now oppose the motion.