We in opposition also believe that education is important, but it is not all that matters when we talk about children, we think that side government is taking this way too far.
They are treating children as if they are robots whose entire purpose is to sit down and and collect as much information as possible so that they could later on help promote society when they grow up their entire line deals with how year round schooling will lead to better students with better grades.
And how it's a shame to be wasting time because we could have been being teaching children more stuff or on how god forbid.
Some students will not be focused in class on there like a week before they go on vacation.
We totally disagree that the metric by which this debate should be judged, is only what leads to better education as if this is all that matters because if this were the situation then why not offer that all children need to live in boarding schools and just study for seven for seven days a week.
Fifteen hours a day this way we could have taught them even more.
But I think it's fairly obvious to all of us that this is wrong and it's not just a matter of make how effective this would be.
We assume that even if this would have been effective, even if we truly could have been been teaching children, plenty more this way, this would still be very, very wrong.
This type of logic may have caught on in some communist country like china or soviet russia, but it completely contradicts every set of beliefs that cherishes individual liberties.
So before I moved to talk about the harms off lake implementing a system in which you only get one week off every every couple of months but there's, no one big holiday it's important to note that side government grossly exaggerates, when describing the harms in the status quo, they tell you that that students forget everything and have to be re taught from the start.
First.
We just think that that's a good exaggerated.
We say that studying and is the is basically like riding a bicycle that doesn't really take you a month to to to refresh yourself in return.
You pick it up quite quickly.
After one lesson or maximum two lessons he is good.
This problem could easily be fixed were solved by handing assignments or homework for children that would have to date that they would have to prepare during their summer vacate vacation or to stay sharp, plenty of schools do this, and we have no problem with this regarding like all the rest of their points again, the fact that we could have taught them more is always true, but that's not how you win this debate, not without explaining why is this so crucial to be teaching children more and more and more stuff.
So why do you why do we think that it's critical to allow a long summer vacation and we cannot just like the we cannot just be happy with one week off here, one week off their first of all, because we believe that this phase in life when you were a student is quite reasonably.
They last they part of your life where you get to have such a long vacation most people graduates, and then they find some sort of job, and they will they have an entire lifetime to be working here, round with short vacations here and there.
But this experience you now have a full month or two months to just do whatever you feel like is precious and priceless.
And we think that it would be a huge shame to be taking away from people, the very few times in which they do get to have this people that will anyway have an entire lifetime to develop a consistent pattern is they tell us already boring routine the way we would call it second of all.
We think that one week vacation is just not enough time to be doing a lot of things like go in traveling to it to a foreign country with your family for more than a couple of days are going to a summer camp where you get to meet a lot of friends outside of your school, where else would you get the chance to do something like this.
If you were learning all year round, these are experiences that are just as in reaching if not more than sitting in class and multiplying numbers there's more to life than the four walls of your classroom, and there is no better time to go out and explore everything then when you are young students, we call you to oppose.