We actually agree with the previous speaker that eighteen year olds are perfectly able to drink responsibly, but he himself does a fantastic job of explaining how the legal age limits is not really that the fact though age in which you start drinking, we are well aware that eighteen and nineteen and twenty year, olds drink, alcohol left and right, and we are fine with that.
But the problem in lowering the drinking age, the legal drinking age to eighteen or to sixteen is that it subsequently will lead to the lowering of the fact though age this I'd start drinking too, like fourteen or fifteen and that's already something that side government would also agree that is on like preferable so here's what we say, basically the legal definition of who is a minor in who is an adult will forever be random, whether we set it at twenty one or eighteen or sixteen, it is clear and obvious that it won't really apply equally to everyone scorched.
There are sixteen year olds that are very mature and calculated and trustworthy.
And there are twenty two.
And twenty three year olds that are very immature and reckless, therefore it doesn't matter where we draw the line.
It is going to be at the same time over inclusive and under inclusive.
But we still have to draw the line somewhere so we're willing to accept the position off site government that most eighteen year, olds are responsible and mature enough in order for us to be fine with having them drink.
But we, but we think that they will also concede that most fourteen year olds are absolutely not responsible enough.
What we also must take into consideration when we draw the line are the effects that daniel explains though.
So it's like so nicely of how you know the taboo when something is forbidden, makes me want to more and so on.
So this means we need to acknowledge the fact that no matter where we draw the line.
This means that snake in the vicinity of that limits, people will not abide by it for this reason we have a very good reason to take this extra buffer zone into sets the legal drinking age to twenty one.
This comes out of the understanding that most eighteen and nineteen year olds will still be drinking and that's fine, but far less.
Fourteen year old will be still be drinking because it will seem so much remote to them knows that all of the harms the previous speaker lists in regard to like reckless responsive it like you responsible drinking that results from not being of the legal age was simply apply to morrow to fourteen year olds and that's much worse.
So we see the same type of logic in other places in the law, by the way, for example, when sitting speed limits to like roads and highways it's perfectly obvious to the government that most people will exceed the lake from the limit and the speed that that's a loud enough in like a few percent.
But in most cases, like the police will even turn a blind eye to mild violations.
Yet these limitations are sets in a manner that is relatively conservative it just in order to make sure that whoever violates then still doesn't drive too fast.
We call this the anchoring, the fact this the number that we set is being used as a sort of a metaphorical anchor that people don't stray too far from so we say that it's it's perfectly make reasonable, but the other side are saying that the current drinking age is a bit unfair to eighteen year olds, but as they tell us themselves just like eighteen year, olds don't really suffer too much out of this, the drink anyway.
So if we lower the drinking age, we say that the damages are going to be much more significant so oppose the motion.