We should further exploits hydroelectric dams.
It is a fact that using traditional non renewable sources of energy production like fossil fuels is hugely contributing to climate change.
And it is a fact that climate change poses a great risk to our entire species.
I doubt that my opponents will try and deny these things because if they choose to do so they're going directly against the strongly held scientific consensus, the only logical conclusion if both these facts is, of course that we as a species must quickly endeavor to make a substantial transition from the way we are used to produce energy and aim to rely much more on renewable energy sources.
There's also the additional little problem with non renewable energy sources being non renewable meaning.
They will eventually end this makes prices incredibly unstable in the short term, and of course, forces us to find alternative renewable solutions anyway in the long after so we might as well find them as soon as possible and not be caught with their pants down in the future.
Another reason we must develop alternative energy solutions to fossil fuels has to do with political and economic reasons, our great dependence on oil and gas and fuel has made us usually dependent on countries and regions were blessed with large reserves of these resources.
And those just happen to be countries in the persian gulf.
This creates a problem in the west, as some of these countries are outright, ideological enemies like iran and others are problematic non natural allies like saudi arabia or qatar that have fanatic religious regimes and horrid human rights abuses yes, we are compelled to overlook those in favor of economic incentives having said all of that, what are our options well basically there's solar power solutions, there's wind power solutions and there's water power solutions.
We inside government believe that all of that all of the above are important directions to pursue and are in no way mutually exclusive.
The most dominant ineffective among water power solutions is a force hydroelectric dams.
Now, opposition may talk about how these dams create some environmental harms, and perhaps that's true, but providing enough energy to sustain the modern way of life is a messy business, no matter how we look at it, and when it comes to protecting the environment, we need to think in terms of how to minimize the harm since it's just not possible to completely entirely avoid it.
So in comparison with using non renewable energy sources, of course that what ever environmental harms these dads, creator almost negligible but it's also possible that hydroelectric dams create more harm than using wind turbines, even though I'm not sure that that's the case or solar panels again, even though I'm not an expert, and I don't really know but it's possible.
And so opposition may want to talk tell you that's the true competitive here are these other renewable sources of energy, and we should further exploit them instead of hydroelectric dams, but the truth of the matter is that there just isn't enough potential in wind or solar power, harnessing to satisfy the massive energy consumption of the modern society, hydroelectric dams account for roughly eighty five percent of renewable energy production.
Now these which means that its production capabilities and potential far outweigh the other renewable solutions.
And so we basically are left with no choice, but to further exploit hydroelectric dams.