So we hear the beginning of their speech quite a lot from side government on how much trans fats are a risk and unhealthy and leading to heart diseases.
And so on now, we're, not gonna argue, obviously this is off the issue, of course, the trends that isn't healthy, but we should pay it lake.
We should keep in mind that sugar is also horrible for health, so we might as well band this is well right and what about cards and white flour, it has also become quite apparent recently that dairy products are also terrible for one's health, so we need to cut them out as well, and what about what's tobacco does to your lungs or what alcohol does to your liver, and it doesn't even stop there.
We say also that it's very risky and dangerous to one's health, not to indulge in any sports activities.
So how about we forced everyone to exercise, we think we've made our point quite clear if we would wants to force people to the to lead healthy lives, then we will never see the end of it.
The question is therefore not whether something is healthy or dangerous, but whether it is legitimate that we make the decision for our citizens, and we say that to that effect, we almost hadn't heard anything coming from the previous speaker.
So then we do hear about how hard it is for the consumer to know exactly when he consumes trans fat because there's a lot of different types of of, you know, facts us so here's a couple of ideas that can solve this problem, eight, educate the public go out with that with that public campaign that explains exactly how dangerous trans fat is in peaches exactly how to avoid it here's a second idea we are okay with passing a law that forces a special like mark for each product that contains trans fat, maybe we can even put warning labels like we put on cigarette packs.
This is not a good enough reason to ban all of these products all together, and eventually we hear on how hard it is to opt out because all of the corporations want to use it because it's cheap so here's a few answers.
Well, first of all, yeah, it's true, but it's true that it's harder, but it's far from impossible spoken from the vegan.
I know with its at I'd, like I know a thing to do or two about how hard it is to avoid ingredients that are very dominant, many foods that people buy, but you can always build your diet more like debate to be based more on greens, like fruits or vegetables and and cereals and legumes things like rice and barley and lentils and and beans and chick peas and so on.
These are not things that are expensive in anyway, and everyone can afford them be.
We think that once we educate the public to as do the dangerous of trans fats, then there will be a market for alternative products that don't have trends facts, of course, such a market already exists, but the more that we educate the public that larger this market will grow and like any market, if it's important enough for consumers, then they will buy more of it than this option will become more available and and and cheaper for everyone.
And if not then not this just means that people don't care enough.
So eventually we say that we have to treat our citizens like grown ups like big boys that are responsible for the consequences of their own decisions.
We don't have a right to force anyone to lead a healthy life were to have to have healthy lifestyle.
People are allowed to hurt themselves if they so choose.
We believe that in general the country, the state then the law can can only intervene in actions that harm a certain third party according to the harm principle.
So all in all a very proud to oppose.