Sex education should be mandatory by this.
We mean to give comprehensive lessons around the age of fifteen, you know, the beginning of high school would be passed on by experts in in which the children will learn the following things what number one about the dangers of having unsafe sex, stds, unwanted pregnancies and so on number two, correct usage of contraception and number three, how to be respectful to what your partner when and if having sex we fully understand that by doing so the school is making a stand on a sensitive subject that some parents might not be happy with.
We none, the less strongly believe that this is a standard that must be taken two arguments number one.
Why do we think that six ad is so crucial and cannot be simply left for the parents and number two, why are we willing to upset or displease conservative or religious parents in order to do so so too the first argument first of all, we think that it can be widely agreed upon that it is essential that children in these ages in which they start exploring their sexuality will somehow learn about the three things that I've mentioned in the opening of my speech.
Now with me fully that too many children, perhaps most children, sex, education, classes, aren't, really necessary.
They wouldn't really teach you a lot of new stuff, and they usually are just a funny experience or an awkward experience.
And that is because many parents do sit down and talk with their children and explain them in an orderly fashion.
You know the birds and the bees talk, or they have a big brother or a bigger sister at the that can use isn't that they can be used as an example.
But there are also children that don't gets to learn this in an orderly fashion, whether because their parents don't really know how to breach this subject and prefer to avoid it altogether were because the barely see their parents that have to work make every day and go and get home back relate or for any other reason, really, and what these children will probably be exposed to our thing like pornography.
And we think that pornography is a horrible example to learn from both in terms of safety, and in terms of being respectful sex.
Ed classes are freed these particular children exactly that balancing factor that so so need it.
We have to make sure these children have at least one positive image of how sexuality should look like.
So over to the next argument, why are we willing to displease certain parents first of all, because the kids that like the children of these parents, despite what they might be thinking, I just as much children as other children and there's a huge probability that they will go out and explore their sexuality, one way or another during these years to think otherwise is to be incredibly naive, even blinded to human nature.
And we owe it to the children knocks to the parents.
Those children might feel embarrassed by having their parents upset for this, the it might put them in a tight spot, but it would be a hundred times better than having them, you know, have accidental like having them accidentally conceived and have to go through an abortion.
Additionally, the fact that there is a certain group that opposes seven contents that's being delivered in the classroom cannot be a good enough justification to avoid that this content otherwise we would have been left with barely nothing should we avoid teaching evolution just because creationists oppose it in any in like in every history class we are teaching contents that are political by definition because the mere decision what to discuss and what not to discuss his political and so you can never ever please all of the factions and groups in society.
So to sum it all up, we showed you that sex that is critical for these children, and there is no good cause to avoid discussing it support the motion.