We should abolish the monarchy before we begin.
We need to clarify something because there are some different models and types of monarchies in the world, starting from models where the monarchy is that the fact the ruler with absolute authority on political decisions made like in saudi arabia.
Our car, two models where the monarch is in more diplomatic and symbolic figure with hardly any authority when it comes to policy liking great britain for the purposes of this debate.
We will argue that all these models need to give way in favor of the democratic republic.
Of course, the more authorities that the monarch has the bigger our problem because becomes will have two points.
First I'll explain the rationale of why we had monarchies to begin with and why this rationale is no longer relevant to day.
And secondly, I'll discuss the inherent harms in a monarchy under all models.
So first point, monarch school used to hold absolute authorities and the legitimacy for the rule is that they were somehow able to persuade the people that they had some divine right to rule the royal family were nearly got to like and that's why the title passes on in a hereditary fashion.
Now the rationale that justifies it was that we needed some one ruler above everyone else to dictate the rules so that we can have order and avoid anarchy.
If there is no one that we can all agree that has the legitimate authority to set rules and enforce them, then everyone do as they please, which is bad for everyone, therefore it's best to sacrifice some of our liberties to this monarch and get a functioning society, but as time went by and people started becoming more aware of their own rights and demanding things from their kings, the thirties of the monarchs dwindle down until we reach the current model of the democratic republic.
And now the obvious obviously have plenty of examples to countries without a monarchy that don't have anarchy in the streets, all that is needed is a functioning government, the parliament that sets laws and courts would force them.
Thus the old logic and rational for monarchs is no longer valid to date.
The new rationale given sometimes especially in britain is that this is the tuition is ingrained in their tradition and culture of this country, and you know, all of this may be true but nostalgia and romanticism can only get you so far.
This is exactly what museums are for we're, not saying they should just forget all about their history, but it's just like vikings are a very important part of the nordic countries history it it doesn't mean that they should go and ravage the scenes today we should put that behind us if no stronger ration exists a monarchy comes at very high costs, and we don't think that it's worth it just for nostalgia's sake.
This brings me to my second point along the years there have been good kings, and there have been bad kings, but the biggest problem is inherently that the people can't control what their king does, except maybe for during violent revolutions when they try and overthrow the monarch.
And this is, of course something that we would like to prevent in the future because many people tend to die in those now because the title passes on through heritage is the king, and he didn't worry about his seat and can pretty much do as he pleases in absolute monarchies.
This is still true to this very day on top of that having grown up in a palace, even if the king wishes, well, most times he's, just not really connected and fully aware of what the average citizen in this country needs.
This is exactly what's democratic republics are meant to fix.
Of course, there can also be good governments and bad government, but the head of state always knows that if he doesn't believe the people he will be removed, and this is the biggest check and balance on the power of the government that's important.
But even in constitutional monarchies, where the king is not a political figure per se, like the UK, there still is a huge price to pay for this monarchy.
Firstly, money, it costs a lot of money to maintain buckingham palace and the lavish lifestyle of the royal family there also security costs, of course, in cost of expeditions abroad that all come from the taxpayers pay roll, taxpayers we did not choose this monarch, not legitimate more over there's, just something wrong about having a class citizens in the form of royal families.
This fixate, the class system, an ugly relic from less enlightened times for all these reasons, please propose.