So side government's case in this debate basically says the following things there are no clear advantages to the cloning of specifically human beings that we cannot achieve by cloning, cloning, human organs of cloning animals or bringing babies to the world, but there are a few potential ethical problems that might arise with regard to how society treats the clones people we are going to win this case by first pointing to some great advantages in specifically human cloning.
And secondly, by showing you why all of the concerns that were brought up by side government, our technical and solvable and not inherent.
But before that, we think that we need to discuss the mental state or the mental situation of these gloves, because this can help bring a little bit order to this discussion and make it a little less blurry.
I think that we need to ask whether my clone also includes all of my personal traits and my memories.
What is it like it totally new born baby that comes to the world tabula rasa, the other side chose not to address this question.
But I think that it is implied from their logic that we are talking about the former that a clone lake.
We talking about clothes that are that are created as exact replicas of the person there they would clone from.
And this includes also mental state and whatever stems from this, because you know, they talk to us about the clones being human agents and about property claims to the lake of the original person.
So from now on, we are simply going to assume that this is the situation we're gonna go with that.
Okay, so side, government don't, see any advantages to cloning here are some meaningful ones.
Eighty if god forbid I lost my kids or my partner in a car accident, or something cloning might help me bring him back to life that's, right I'm, talking about overcoming death.
If this is not a meaningful benefit, they truly don't know what is beat.
It is possible to do cologne, great thinkers.
Now think about how much could be achieved if there were two or three more einstein's that could join forces in research of the universe.
Now there's a lot more to say, but I think that will settle for these two advantages for not one note that these are advantages that could in no way be achieved by simply cloning sheep that are unique to human cloning.
But what about the ethical problems that tim talks about well let's see, first, he talks to us about there being property rights issues to the clone.
This is a very weird points.
This will be a person, not a property.
No one has property rights to it late problem solved.
Next, he talks about clone cloned organ.
Weeping farms, or something now never mind the fact that a minute before that he tells us himself that we are already developing technologies for cloning organs that are going to solve the shortage problem there for there's no sense in such farms, but hey here's an idea let's outlaw such forms if the two, if they will exist human cloning, will probably be easy enough to supervise it's, expensive as team says it's, not something that you could simply do with great ease and speed at some back alley.
So we will be pretty easy for us to make sure that this doesn't happen problem solved.
And then tim tells us that society is going to treat these clones with great cruelty.
Now perhaps that's true society is in fact, not very patients towards whoever is considered different, but it's it's, no different from problems of prejudice and discrimination that minority populations have to deal with every day.
This is simply a matter that takes some time in an adjustment period at and eventually this will be solved as well.
It might take a few generations for sure, but that by itself is not a good enough reason to curtail the scientific progress and to prevent all of the great advantages of human cloning, please oppose the motion.