We should ban gambling.
We believe that true liberty means independence it's having control over the basic course of your life to have this control stripped from you is to be robbed your liberty and we mustn't let that happen, surely almost every decision in life can have unpredictable outcome, so let's be crystal, clear we're in favor of banning every activity in which you gamble purely on conditions that you have no control or knowledge over this means no more relaxed or slot machines, and with regard to card games, such as poker.
This is arguably something that you cannot control by having some skills so we're going to leave that question open, we don't think that it harms in any way the principle that we defend in this debate.
So obviously we're also talking strictly about activities where significant sums of money are involved.
So we're gonna have to arguments in the speech.
One on whether we allow to protect you from yourself and second on some practical effects of banning gambling, arguments like with any other thing, we're banning this is restricting people from doing certain things that they might want to do if they're not harming anyone else.
Why is it okay for us to intervene the answer here is that gambling is highly addictive as the huge number of compulsive gamblers can attest to, and because it is by definition, something that you have no control over at the point in which you get addicted to can easily reach a stage where you lose all control over your life.
Therefore, in this case, much like all sorts of very addictive narcotics, it is permissible to intervene and the only way to do that is to try and cut it at its roots because once you're in it it's probably too late what's more it's, usually the weakest most poorest that find themselves addicted to gambling, why because we're wealthy gamblers see casinos as a fun using outdoor activity for the less well off it's often considered their rescue we'll their ticket out of poverty.
And so they end up spending much more and getting sucked in due to this, unfortunately, false hope.
These people are sometimes not educated enough or otherwise used to enchanted by the thought of suddenly becoming rich in their unable to fully realize how scars their chances of success really are.
These are the people that casinos are targeting because they know they'll be able to squeeze a lot of money out of them.
So essentially we say that this is a lot like frogger false advertising, and this is all the more reason to protect their citizens even at the expense of for bidding them, something they might want to do, of course, it's not only the gamblers themselves that end up getting hurt, but also their families seeing as many compulsive gamblers end up mortgaging their properties or otherwise grossly in that it ruining their families to no fault of their own, and so by banning gambling we're helping them as well it's, not only harm to your own self second argument moving on to some of the practical aspects of this band.
So opposition often say, listen to be banned gambling than a black market will develop that will involve all sorts of other illegal activities and all sorts of criminal types which will make the gamblers lives, much more complicated, legalizing gambling hopes that help to supervise and protect gamblers and so on and so on so here's a response black markets never actually go away just by legalizing the thing that they're dealing in, they can very much coexist alongside the legal market.
If we legalized gambling it's it, it will become much more accessible to many more people who be duped into the world of gambling and end up in the black market anyway, pawning their cars and houses because the accumulated debts that they have no other way of pain.
And so in this particular example, we think that the legal market will just intensify the black market and it's preferable to bandits and try and deal with the small black market that exists today, and as sadly always has and always will.
And for all these reasons which we are very glad to propose.