We should disband NATO along the sixty or so years of its existence.
NATO has turned from being in the neighborhood watch to being the neighborhood, bully it's, actual interventions have turned out to be failures.
One by one and its very existence and ever looming presence pose a serious threat to the stability and safety of the global community.
First arguments how NATO threatens russia and why it's a bad idea.
NATO was originally created with the sole purpose of intimidating, the soviet union from trying to expand westward, and of course they created in return the warsaw alliance.
And so throughout the cold war, we had this mutual deterrence on both sides that was quite effective in preventing escalations, but with the collapse of the USSR, the warsaw, a lot alliance was this band, and so it was seem reasonable to assume that NATO should also follow.
But in reality, what happened is not only did they don't dot this band itself, but rather it expanded eastward, allowing for the united states to place soldiers and missiles right across the border from russia.
This understandably is being seen as a provocation by russia.
Why is that so bad because vladimir putin's, russia, doesn't respond well to such threats.
There is little doubt today that russia isn't happy with a unique pull their global system in which the USA has all the control, and it wants to reassert its position as an international power, perhaps that much is true within that within NATO or without its but instead of intimidating, the russians and have them quietly.
Fold back NATO has served as the thorn in the side of russian pride, and it became a key catalyst or an excuse for russia to take all the more actions in the region among its actions.
We can see the war against georgia, the intervention in the ukrainian crisis and annexation of crimea and the intervention of the syrian civil war.
NATO feeds into the nationalist sentiments that few of these are questions that had it not been for the western provocation of NATO expanding eastward.
It is unlikely that russia would have dared to take all these aggressive steps, but NATO provides putin with the local support.
He needs inside russia and is a winning card with the international community as well.
This is why, instead of being a protective stabilizing to NATO is become a destabilizing force that brings more harm than good second arguments why v interventionist approach has failed us so NATO isn't only seen as a body that reacts to attacks on its member states like it originally was but also serves as a form of interventionist force as we can see from its involvement in the invasion of iraq and bombardment of libya.
It seems that whenever the west tries to intervene militarily only create further chaos that leads to an even worse situation than before this is true to both the examples that I mentioned earlier and the force any other thing that pops to mind.
In addition, we simply don't see why american or french or norwegian soldiers should be sent should be send that off and fighting and dying for some remote county in georgia, we believe that it's time to learn from the mistakes of our past and stop trying to see america and the west as the knights in bright shining armor that comes to save the day for all these reasons we believe that NATO should be this bad.