Two points in the speech.
First, a principle justification for ASP owes.
And second, why these laws are necessary to protect citizens from actual harm before that a few points of refutation to the previous speaker.
So he starts by saying that the law is meant to protect freedoms and that ASB owes harm freedom why because in their mind, there is no actual harm here.
This is just the hater that bothers people.
So we don't understand on what grounds the separate here between something that bothers people and harm if we're talking for instance, about a neighbor that insist on playing his music really really loud, and this is harassment plain and simple.
This is an actual harm for all, we know, and they say that the law mustn't interfere with social behavior antisocial behavior in their minds is a problem like it's a failure of society and therefore it's society's responsibility to intervene.
Well, we have two answers here first being make up violent criminal offenses are often a result of failures of society as well.
So according to this logic, we must also let society handle armed robbers that came from a poor background rather rather than legally intervene.
We think that this is crazy.
Secondly, we're going to explain in our positive point why we think that society simply cannot handle this issue well, so the second point that comes in their speech is that these laws are very vague it's unclear to me when I am I like breaking the law or not, we would say that this is imprecise, we would remind you that there are two stages to this process.
Firstly, I get to be a speedo after I demonstrated some antisocial behavior, and only then if I break it I'd I'd, break the law so it's true that there's a certain amount of vagueness as to when section AS me might be issued to me, but up until that point I haven't done anything illegal and therefore there's like no problem of the lobbying on clear here in the s b o itself, things will be very clearly defined.
And so I could know exactly how you must behave in order, not to break the law let's move on over to the positive.
So a principle justification so right in the end of the previous speakers speech he says something about people needing to have a miss radio and ill intention in order to break the law, but that is also not precisely the case we say that there are some laws that don't require a malign intent, namely negligence laws and we think that this is very similar to this case we're going to justify HBO's as something akin to negligence in cases of negligence you can be really liable for your actions because you failed to meet the standards that society where the court for that matter define as the standard of the reasonable person.
So in this case as well like in in our case is well, we we think that there are there's a certain type of behavior that we can expect people to reasonably follow, and whether fails to do that by the same logic can be held liable more over.
We think that in many cases there is no line intent in the cases of s b s b owes its not hard to imagine people that are just simply jackasses in that they raise the volume up to spite their neighbors, though, there's men, three others after this race and there's no problem off of like holding them liable, which brings me to my final point.
These laws are necessary in order to protect citizens from harm why because we say that we can't just expect society to pass on matters to people successfully like the previous speaker wants as long as there's.
No significant sanction.
Then the bully has nothing to be afraid of if I'm antisocial and I don't care what people think about me, which is the only sanction the society knows to to like give you like that other people won't like you.
But if I am anti socialite don't care, what other people think about me so I have no incentive and nothing to stop me from bothering other people, and therefore we need the law to give teeth to this ban and the tear people from doing this for all these reasons, please oppose.