As much as the concept of creating a super national union of countries to promote big goals and aims of trade and peace sounds appealing, we must face reality and be able to admits when such an organization is failing and is no longer justifying the cost that's invested in it.
This union has been unsuccessful during the decades of its operation to bring about a significant rise either in growth or prosperity of the member countries.
There are several reasons for that.
The first one is vast cultural differences.
If we look at the european union as an example for the super national organization that is a relatively successful, then we could say that's despite the obvious differences in culture.
There is still a common line between the countries that are like members of of the union.
They are all democratic countries with a capitalist economy.
Christianity is overwhelmingly the dominant religion in the union and so on.
And but when we look at the a s e, a n, I can clearly see that we are talking about a union between countries with a completely different nature democracies like the philippines alongside monarchies, like thailand along side, make military regimes in myanmar or communist regimes in laos or autocratic regimes in singapore, there is not even one dominant religion we have christianity, we have as long we have, but his and so in short, we say that it is very difficult to create a true mutual ground and mutual language this way and like to establish real cooperation.
Second reason is very unstable economies.
If there is anything that we've learned from looking at the difficulties that the european union is facing is that the effect of weaker countries on the verge of collapsing, they could week member states that are on the verge of collapse for that actually do collapse means trouble for the entire union.
And it takes huge investments of huge sums of money in attempts to save these member states from bankruptcy and with all due respect for the hardship that the greek economy is facing.
We believe that there is no way to compare its to the economies of countries such as cambodia or thailand that are in much worse shape.
So creating a trade zone between rich countries like singapore and poor countries like thailand or cambodia brings to a complete dependency of the poorer countries.
Upon the richer countries, this dependency creates conflicts and much resentment even and it might have the opposite effect of what we actually want to achieve on trade on exporting and importing because the relations between the countries are getting tense.
And so this might have been and a negative effect on trade, then it might do more harm than good on that respect.
And so it seems that not only the history of this organization teaches us that it's not particularly successful, but we also have a few structural reasons to believe that no significant change is seen in the near future, maintaining such an organization costs huge sums of money we have to lake occupied buildings and pay salaries and conduct summits in signed treaties.
This is a lot of investment that goes out without achieving anything.
It is a shame, basically, and so we support the disbanding of the a s e a n.