We should legalize ivory trade.
So on the one side of the scales in this debate, we have the possible extinction of endangered elephants in africa.
And on the other we have massive financial benefits to some of the poorest countries in the world in this speech from going to argue the following a the latter is simply more important than the former and be even if not banning ivory trade does very little to help protect the elephants, even the opposite.
And so we might as well at the very least try and make the most out of it and guarantee that the money is reaching the right place first arguments.
So we were all taught how important it is to protect endangered species, but we would actually challenge this notion in their ask.
Why is it so important what's the intrinsic value of african elephants being able to walk around safely, surely it can't be about animal rights since we generally don't mind, slaughtering billions of animals, each passing day just so we can enjoy eating meat or dairy or wearing fur or letter what's so different about wanting to enjoy the use of ivory.
So we think that apart from vague sentimental values there's just not a lot to say for the importance of protecting africa's elephants on the other hand.
However, the potential benefits that can come out of ivory trade is huge.
The main countries that stand to gain a lot from this are countries like zimbabwe or botswana, and the like these are incredibly poor countries that can't possibly create a competitive advantage for themselves in the industry or agriculture sectors because this would require knowledge and technology that they simply don't possess.
So the one thing that these countries are uniquely rich in is wildlife and still relying on hunting is one of the only opportunities for them to generate growth.
This is being heavily hindered today by the ban on ivory.
This is a band that other powerful countries have decided upon without considering for a moment, the weaker countries that are going to be most effective.
We think that the people of africa are more important than its elephants and our obligation should rest with them first and foremost, at the point at which we need to prioritize the lives of one over the other.
We think that the choice should be easy but let's move on and say that you remained unconvinced and that you still believe that it's wrong to allow elephants to go extinct.
We have some bad news and on ivory trade does very little to help on that regard.
Ivory is still a very desired commodity and the demand for it remains high.
Thus like any other thing, that's being bands, a black market is created all this band does is make sure that instead of the countries themselves enjoying the benefits of ivory trade.
All of the money goes into the pockets of illegal poachers with the current ban on the ivory trade.
The countries have very little incentive to invest the efforts needed to stop these poachers because why should they care about the elephants population if it's no longer a source of income note these poachers are even more likely to bring about the speed the extinction of the elephant population.
Why because if we allow ivory treats, governments will want to make sure that the elephant population isn't the medicated entirely because they want to continue making money off it.
So we make sure the control the hunting poachers aren't looking at the bigger picture, their incentive is set to hunt down as many as possible right now before someone else gets to this is the well known economic problem that's called the tragedy of the commons.
This means that it's likely that lifting the ban will lead to the elephant population being extinct way quicker, and even if not at the very least that won't do much to help them.
And so the very least we think that we have to look at where is the money being made lake, where is the money being made from hunting puts to better use, and that is if it reaches the countries and not the poachers.
So for all these reasons, proud to propose.