With the prevalence of HIV, both worldwide and across Africa, concern has been raised over what can provide appropriate solutions. In 2011, 34 million people were living with HIV globally; with rates of HIV in Sub-Saharan Africa accounting for 69% of the total adult population living with HIV (GHO, 2013) [1] . The identification of the burden HIV/AIDS has on livelihoods, health systems, and economy, placed the effective control of HIV/AIDS on the Millenium Development Goals agenda. Previous debates and concern have drawn upon a range of concerns from medical intervention to contraceptive distribution. The 17th International Conference on AIDS and sexually transmitted infections in Africa, based in South Africa, worked to mobilise response and solutions to reach a target of zero people living with HIV. A key focus was placed on the provision of HIV treatment; and crucial recognition was raised on a particular group, sex workers [2] . Unsafe sex work accounts for 15% of HIV amongst women (Pruss-Ustun et al, 2013) [3] . However, despite being a “vulnerable” group, their inclusion in treatment and prevention solutions has remained marginalised within the policy discourse and practice. Sex workers have often been criminalised, driving it underground.

In focusing on sex workers and the measures to combat HIV/AIDS this debate explores who are sex workers, where they are, why do they adopt such practices, and what relationship do they have to the prevalence of HIV/AIDS. Sex work is broadly defined as the act of selling sex. Across Africa the legality of sex work varies - for example prostitution is defined as illegal in a majority of African nation-states [4] . However, the question remains as to what can be used to effectively reduce, and combat, HIV/AIDS amongst sex workers?

Regional variations remain in HIV/AIDS across Africa. Percentages range from 0.7% (among 15-49 year olds) in Senegal to 17.3% in South Africa (WHO, 2011): what are the causes of variation? Is the issue one of law and legality, whereby sex work needs to be made illegal to discourage such occupations; or does this result in a loss of rights and human dignity? Do sex workers need support to exit the precarious employment? This debate focuses on both issues around supply and demand of sex workers; the potential limits of legal change in resolving the pandemic; and the politics involved with being a sex worker. Ultimately is the UNDP (2013) right to propose legal frameworks as requirements to prevent HIV/AIDS and vulnerability [5] ? Is it a question of theory versus practice?

[1] Around 63% of eligible people are receiving antiretroviral treatment across the African region (see WHO, 2013).

[2] Itself a slippery concept: The worker has to identify themselves as a ‘sex worker’, defined as the exchange of sex at a negotiated price. This fails to explore if the act is condoled by choice; the variety of bartering or exchange that take place; and the variety of conditions whereby sex is exchanged for a ‘reward’.

[3] Evidence by the WHO (2011) has shown within the HIV epidemic sex workers remain a key group in Sub-Saharan Africa; reporting relatively higher rates of HIV then the general population.

[4] Two nation-states have made prostitution legal and regulated (including Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal) while in thirteen countries prostitution is legal, but associated activities unregulated (Wikipedia, 2013).

[5] See further reading: UNDP, 2012.
