The term “public figure” covers a relatively large spectrum of people who share the commonality of being widely known. This can range from those who play a recognizably important role in shaping society, such as politicians or CEOs, to celebrities who attract or court media attention; a public figure then could simply be described as a person who is known by a large mass of a given populous. Most public figures will utilize the media to get a message across to the public which helps further an agenda, thus the power public figures wield in shaping public opinions and perceptions is potentially huge. The media, in its role not only as broadcaster but also as watchdog, claims that information about the private lives of such publics figures should be published as it is in the public interest given the power they have. Public figures argue that while investigation into their public work is fine, they still deserve the right to privacy in their private lives extended to everyone else.

The extent to which the media are legally free to investigate and publish details of public figures’ private lives varies from country to country. For example, France is much stricter on protecting personal privacy than Britain is. The debate has recently been given additional importance by the development of Human Rights law within Europe, as privacy is now classed as a right under the European Convention of Human Rights, as well as by political scandals in many countries which have highlighted the need to scrutinize public figures’ behavior much more closely. However the extent of intrusion by media organizations also needs to be assessed, as is demonstrated by the closure of the UK newspaper News of the World in 2011 when the practice of phone hacking was revealed to be in practice not only in relation to celebrities but also politicians, victims of terrorism and the presumed missing then found dead phone of 13 year old Milly Dowler. [1] Should then the private lives of public figures be fully scrutinized or should the right to privacy trump the freedom of the press?

[1] Davis, N. (2011) Missing Dowler’s Voicemail was Hacked by News of the World. [online] [accessed 14th July 2011]
