The suggestion that nuclear power is a ‘green’ source of energy has long been a divisive issue for the environmental lobby. Some have seen nuclear energy as environmentally unfriendly, others as a necessary evil and another group have suggested that it is the best answer to a carbon-neutral future. Some environmentalists have suggested that nuclear power should be treated as a one way bridge – filling the gap while more sustainable technologies are developed. On the other hand it has suggested that renewables will never meet the energy needs of developed societies and that nuclear power is the only way of addressing those concerns in an age that is increasingly concerned about carbon emissions.

There are problems with all forms of non-carbon intensive energy production and inevitable arguments between them. Some relate to security of supply, others to the environmental impact of the restive technologies. The variations in the assertions of the defenders and critics of all of the technologies are breath-taking. Generally speaking, however, the confusion stems from issues relating to the externalities of the sources. “Externalities” is a term used by economists – and others who are interested – to refer to unseen costs. Critics of nuclear power say that their costs tend to ignore the costs of reprocessing and the damage caused by mining. Likewise critics of tidal power question the additional costs that should be factored in as a result of barrages on local fisheries.

With the emergence of new powers such as China – which currently has 14 nuclear power stations with another 25 under construction [i] - there are concerns as to how these developments may affect the relationships between high energy using states. In addition there is a concern about the impact that a transition to non-carbon based fuels will have on the relationships those states have with the Middle East.

The issue is constantly in flux in the minds of many commentators. The British columnist and environmental campaigner George Monbiot, who previously described himself as “agnostic” on the issue of nuclear power, was converted by, of all things, the meltdown at the Fukushima plant in Japan [ii] .

The primary difficulty faced by Proposition in this debate is that supporters of renewables – even those who can group together against nuclear and fossil fuel based technologies – can rarely agree on which of the available renewable technologies should be supported. In practical terms this leaves Proposition needing to defend a variety of technologies against specific attacks on each of them. Opposition, by contrast, needs to deal with the presumption that anything with the world ‘nuclear’ in it is dangerous; the words and phrases Fukushima, Chernobyl and Three Mile Island are too easily brought to mind and associated with words such as meltdown, Armageddon and warfare.

[i] “Nuclear Power in China” World Nuclear Association.

[ii] George Monbiot. “Why Fukushima Made Me Stop Worrying and Love Nuclear Power”. The Guardian. 21 March 2011.
