Should women be allowed to serve in combat roles in the armed forces? Combat roles are usually defined as “roles whose primary duty is to close with and kill the enemy”. [1] Examples are infantryman, tank crew member and combat pilot.

The military roles open to women vary around the world. Legislative changes in the past few decades have allowed women to serve in all military roles in many western countries (such as Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, Norway, Ireland, Denmark, Germany, Finland and the Netherlands). Most other western countries allow women to serve in a variety of roles but not in combat. Examples are the U.S. (United States) and U.K. (United Kingdom). [2] Nevertheless, the roles of women in the British and American militaries have been gradually increased. The Rand Corporation studied increased deployment of women in all three branches of the United States military throughout the 1990s. They wholeheartedly endorsed further integration, having found no great ill effects from expanding the roles of women in the different services over that period. [3] In 2002, the British Ministry of Defense reviewed whether to open combat roles to women and decided against it, while the service of American women in Iraq and Afghanistan wars has led to a renewed debate about opening combat roles to women in the U.S. military. [4] [5]

During the twentieth century, equal opportunity laws have made it possible for women to work in many fields which were once exclusively male. In many western countries, the military is now one of the very few parts of society to formally discriminate against women. Meanwhile, the number and nature of conflicts in the world have changed over the past century.

Since the end of the Cold war, wars have become “less frequent and less deadly”. [6] In the past, wars were often fought between large armies with heavy weaponry, but many modern conflicts are L.I.C.s (low intensity conflicts), involving terrorist groups with guerilla tactics. L.I.C. has been defined by the U.S. military as “... a political-military confrontation between contending states or groups below conventional war and above the routine, peaceful competition among states. It frequently involves protracted struggles of competing principles and ideologies... It is waged by a combination of means, employing political, economic, informational, and military instruments.” [7] Modern war has gained an intensity and geopolitical significance. Terrorists’ threats prompt the invasion of countries, while struggles for democracy often attract allied intervention. An example is the N.A.T.O. (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) involvement in the Libyan civil war of 2011. [8]

Interventions by western allied groups have increased, while young people in these countries are used to educational and economic opportunities that have largely removed their incentives to enlist. Since the Cold war, most of these countries have ended conscription (with exceptions such as Israel and Russia), relying instead on A.V.F.s (all volunteer forces). Both these developments place pressure on recruitment.

[1] ‘Women in the Armed Forces’, Ministry of Defence, Accessed 25 July 2012

[2] ‘Women in the military by country’, Wikipedia, Accessed June 2nd, 2011

[3] Harrell, Margaret C., and Miller, Laura L., ‘New Opportunities for Military Women’, RAND, 1997, p.99.

[4] Alvarez, Lizette, ‘G.I. Jane Breaks the Combat Barrier’, The New York Times, 15 August 2009.

‘MOD completes review into women in close combat roles’, Ministry of Defence, 29 November 2010.

[5] ‘Women in the Armed Forces’, Ministry of Defence, May 2002.

[6] ‘Wars ‘less frequent, less deadly’’, BBC News, 17 October 2005.

[7] ‘Military Operations in Low Intensity Conflict’, United States Army, FM 100-20, 16 January 1981.

[8] ‘NATO and Libya Operation Unified Protector’, NATO, February – October 2011, Accessed June 2nd, 2011
