On the 23 rd of June 2016 the United Kingdom will hold a referendum on its membership of the European Union. It will be the first such referendum in the UK since 1974 and there is a real chance of the country exiting the EU. The Prime Minister, David Cameron, will lead the campaign to stay in the Union having completed a renegotiation with other EU members. Cameron claims this deal brings enough powers back to Westminster and changes to the Union that it is now worth staying in the Union. Those campaigning to leave, including five of Cameron’s cabinet; Chris Grayling, Ian Duncan Smith, Theresa Villiers, John Whittingdale, and Priti Patel, [1] as well as London Mayor Boris Johnson, believe the changes amount to very little concrete.

Cameron’s renegotiation deal consists of four broad areas of changes;

Economic governance – ensuring that the UK will not have to contribute to, or be part of, any Eurozone bail out.

Competitiveness – cutting red tape by repealing unnecessary legislation.

Sovereignty – the UK opts out of ‘ever closer union’ and this phrase in the treaties should not be used as a legal basis to extend treaties and EU legislation. Additionally a reaffirmation of subsidiarity and introducing the ability of national parliaments between them to throw out changes being imposed by the council.

Free movement – a break on social security benefits and restrictions on other benefits such as child benefit. [2]

Prime Minister Cameroon’s EU renegotiation deal is mostly important for the campaign it starts off more than the deal and treaty itself. Whether the UK remains in or votes to leave will be the most important outcome. The deal itself however should not be discounted while almost everyone in the UK would agree it does not include all the changes the UK would like to the EU it does make some significant impacts on its own terms; in formalising two speed Europe, in enshrining competitiveness, and in formalising how Eurozone and non-Eurozone countries interact.

This debate will not discuss the broad arguments for and against remaining in the European Union. Instead it will focus on the details of the deal brought back from Brussels, whether it constitutes the change its negotiators have hailed it as being, and whether it is a sufficient change that it should change voters’ minds.

[1] Payton, Matt, ‘EU referendum: The Cabinet Ministers voting to leave – and stay in – the EU’, The Independent, 20 February 2016, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/eu-referendum-which-cabinet-ministers-are-rooting-for-brexit-a6885776.html

[2] Read the full text of the deal at, Annex 1, Decision of the Heads of State or Government, meeting within the European Council, Concerning a new settlement for the United Kingdom within the European Union, Conclusions, 18 and 19 February 2016, http://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2016/02/19-euco-conclusions/
