Imagine that one day you come across five people in immediate and mortal peril. You and you alone can save them, but doing so will kill one other person. For instance, five people may be in path of an out-of-control trolley that could be diverted onto a track where there is only one person. You are aware of no morally relevant differences between the six people: none of them are murderers or saints who especially “deserve” to live or die, and none of them ended up in this situation due to their own negligence or transgressions. Given such a situation (hereafter referred to as the “thought experiment”), the resolution is that you should opt to actively kill the one person in order to save the many.

Two terms are useful for understanding this debate. “Utilitarianism” is the ethical view that, broadly speaking, prescribes whatever course of action will result in the greatest good, usually measured by adding up the total amount of good (also known as “utility”, and which in practice usually means happiness or some other measure of a thriving life) that accrues to everyone [1] . According to utilitarianism, the correct act is that which results in the highest total utility, regardless of what actions it is that bring that state about; because of its emphasis on consequences, it is sometimes known as “consequentialism.” According to utilitarianism, we generally ought not to kill, and ought to keep promises, because doing so makes everyone better off. “Deontology”, by contrast, is the ethical view that prescribes a moral agent to act in accordance with specific rules, regardless of their consequences [2] . Deontology will, for instance, prescribe specific moral duties not to kill, and to always keep promises, not because of their results, but simply because we ought to do them. Deontological rules are often justified on the basis of treating each person as they deserve and respecting them not as a “mere means.”

[1] Sinnott-Armstrong, Walter, "Consequentialism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2011/entries/consequentialism/

[2] Alexander, Larry and Moore, Michael, "Deontological Ethics", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2008/entries/ethics-deontological
