Microsoft has held a monopoly on software such as operating systems and office applications for most desktop computers for the last two decades. There have been a variety of rivals from Lotus to Netscape who have tried and failed to unseat the company’s dominance. Since 1989 a new generation of programmers has emerged with a completely different approach to software development; a collaborative and open one.

Microsoft carefully guards the intellectual property to its products by limiting access to the software source code (the inner instructions and algorithms that make its programmes work), claiming that this is necessary for the security of its customers and to protect the investment it has made in product development. In contrast, open source software (such as Mozilla’s Firefox web browser, the Open Office suite of word processing and spread sheet tools, or the operating system Linux) is, under the General Public License, open to all developers to read, change, adjust, and even to redistribute [i] .

Proponents argue that this makes it safer, more flexible and morally purer, as well as significantly cheaper than closed source alternatives. Opponents of open source argue that such software is often lower quality. They claim that open source software is less likely to be tailored to the needs of specific types of client and customer- most notably consumers- and that it is unusually vulnerable to bugs and compatibility issues.

While some consumers have begun to use open source software, with the exception of server operating systems (like Linux and Apache), businesses and governments have been slow to adopt open source software. Governments spend enormous sums on computer software each year; the UK Home Office, for example, recently published a list of £26m worth of proprietary, closed source software bought over an 18 month period [ii] . If governments around the world were to select open source rather than closed source software, they could significantly change the balance of the industry and make dramatic cost and efficiency savings. This has begun to happen, with ambitious long term projects to switch to open source software in BRIC nations (Brazil, Russia, India, China). Increasingly, for example, Brazil’s government ministries are abandoning Windows in favour of open source software such as Linux [iii] . Most of these projects are still at an early stage, but more and more developed countries are reviewing government IT systems and are exploring the advantages and disadvantages of open source software.

[i]
“The Open Source Definition.” Open source initiative.

[ii] Cellan-Jones, Rory. “Can Whitehall open up to open source?” BBC News. 5 September 2011.

[iii] Kingstone, Steve. “Brazil adopts open-source software.” BBC News. 2 June 2005.
