Member states of the European Union (EU) make an annual payment to the EU budget, according to the relative size of their economies. The EU Commission then spends this money, most heavily on the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and regional aid for poorer areas. This means that some countries do better in purely financial terms from EU membership than others. Some richer countries, such as Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands and Britain pay out more the EU than they receive back in CAP payments or regional aid - they are net contributors to the budget. Other countries, mostly ones with larger agricultural sectors and relatively poor regions (e.g. Portugal and Greece) receive more from the EU than they pay in - they are net recipients. France and Italy’s contributions and receipts are roughly in balance. The actual budget is agreed (as a percentage of European GDP - currently it is 1%) [1] for a seven year period.

When Britain joined the European Economic Community (EEC) in 1974 it was unusual in having a relatively small farming sector and few region which were considered poor in European terms - this meant that its net contribution to the European budget was very large compared to other member states. In 1975 the Labour Government of Harold Wilson renegotiated Britain’s membership and won agreement in principle that Britain might get some of its net contribution back each year - a rebate on its payments. In reality nothing happened until the 1980s, when Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher famously demanded “I want my money back”. After five years of argument, backed by Thatcher’s threat to veto any expansion of the EU budget until she got her way, a British rebate of was agreed at Fontainbleu in 1984. [2] As a result, 66% of Britain’s net contribution to the EU budget is returned to it each year - the sum being funded from the contributions of the other member states. [3] In 2003, for example, Britain paid 9.97billion Euros into the EU budget and would have benefited from 1 billion Euros of EU spending in Britain - it would have made a net contribution of about 9 billion Euros to the EU budget. But because of the rebate, 5.2 billion euros was returned to Britain, reducing its overall net contribution to 3.8 billion Euros. [4]

No other country has such a rebate and almost all EU leaders and commentators outside Britain have argued for many years that it is time for the rebate to be ended. This has made budget negotiations uncomfortable for British Prime Ministers at times, but as every country has a veto in the seven-yearly EU budget negotiations the rebate has survived for two decades. The rebate has come under particularly close examination in the most recent round of negotiations, with demands from all 24 of Britain’s EU partners that it will be given up in the interests of fairness and European solidarity. Risking the anger of the Eurosceptic British press, Prime Minister Tony Blair showed willingness to give up part of the rebate in order to achieve a budget settlement for 2007-2013. In December 2005 a summit of European Heads of Government reached agreement on the next budget period, including this partial British concession on the rebate worth £9.3billion over the five year budget period. [5]

The case below largely focuses upon whether the rebate should be given up entirely, but the last two pairs of arguments also touch on the possibility of a partial concession on the rebate.

[1] Marzinotto, Benedicta, ‘The EU Budget’s Outsize Political Role’, 2011

[2] Patterson, Ben, ‘The UK rebate issue’ (link downloads pdf)

[3] BBC News, ‘Q&amp;A: The UK budget rebate’, 2005

[4] BBC News, ‘Fact check: Britain’s EU rebate’, 2005

[5] Hope, Christopher, ‘Tony Blair’s decision to cut the EU rebate cost £9.3billion, report shows’, 2009
