The United States initiated Operation Enduring Freedom on the 7 th October 2001 less than a month after the attack on the World Trade Center and Pentagon. The Taliban had been sheltering Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of those attacks, and refused to extradite him. The conflict was swift with Kabul falling on the 13 th November to the Northern Alliance, a group who had been fighting the Taliban and had US help. Bin Laden however evaded the United States and escaped to Pakistan but has since been killed.

There was however a need to keep the peace and the International Security Assistance Force was established in Kabul on 20 December 2001. NATO took over command of ISAF on 11 August 2003 and its mission was expanded to include the whole country. Unfortunately the United States and NATO did not succeed in destroying the Taliban who managed to regroup in Pakistan and begin fighting again in Afghanistan in 2003. Losses for NATO and US forces in Afghanistan reached a peak of 711 in 2011 and so far there have been a total of 3340 fatalities. [1] Casualty rates for civilians are of course many times higher with at least 14728 since 2005. [2] NATO however is now getting out; on the 18 th June the control over military operations in Afghanistan was handed over to the Afghanis and on the same day the Taliban indicated a willingness to negotiate indicating that perhaps an end is in sight. [3] Regardless of whether these negotiations go ahead NATO intends to have mostly left the country by the end of 2014. So it is a good time to consider if NATO has been successful.

What constitutes success for NATO in Afghanistan? There are several different threads to what might be considered a success. The most obvious are whether there has been success in the objectives set by the United States at the outset of the conflict and whether NATO has succeeded in the remit of its mission in Afghanistan.

George Bush initially stated that US actions were “designed to disrupt the use of Afghanistan as a terrorist base of operations and to attack the military capability of the Taleban regime.” [4] This is a very limited objective that could be said to have been rapidly met but it is not really the objective for having NATO forces in Afghanistan.

Annex I of the Bonn agreement in 2001 that established the international force in Afghanistan recognised that “the responsibility for providing security and law and order throughout the country resides with the Afghans themselves”. The NATO force was to “assist in the maintenance of security for Kabul and its surrounding areas” and was later expanded to the rest of the country through UN Security Council resolution 1510 in 2003. [5] The only non-security element mentioned for the force was at the end “it would also be desirable if such a force were to assist in the rehabilitation of Afghanistan’s infrastructure.” [6]

But while it is clearly the most important element just limiting the question to security does ignore other justifications for NATO’s mission that have at various times been given; to ensure human rights, to enable the growth of democracy, and rebuilding the country all of which should be at least considered.

[1] ‘Coalition Military Fatalities By Year’, accessed 19 June 2013

[2] Rogers, Simon, and Chalabi, Mona, ‘Afghanistan civilian casualties’, Datablog guardian.co.uk, 12 April 2013

[3] Roberts, Dan, ‘Taliban peace talks: ‘Peace and reconciliation’ negotiations to take place in Qatar’, The Guardian, 19 June 2013

[4] Bush, George W., ‘Statement given after the start of the US and British military strikes on targets in Afghanistan on Sunday, 7th October 2001.’ Language in use

[5] United Nations Security Council, ‘Resolution 1510’, 4840 th meeting of the Security Council, 13 October 2003, S/RES/1510 (2003)

[6] Annex I, International Security Force S/2001/1154, UNDemocracy.com
