The European Union has since its inception had European integration beyond trade as its overarching goal. In recent years, it has moved towards an increasingly closer political union. Many political competences that used to belong to nations have been transferred to permanent EU institutions such as the Council of the EU, the European Parliament, and the European Commission. In other words, the EU has gained increasing legislative and fiscal power, so that member states and their citizens are legally bound to follow EU laws which span increasingly contentious areas. These include budget regulations through the Maastricht criteria, but go beyond them: it is hard to think of an area of policy where the EU is not active (1). The EU is therefore already a political union.

Since the beginning of the Euro crisis, there has been pressure from some member states, and notably Germany and France, to move towards an ever closer political union (2). Although they don’t yet exist common fiscal policies and a banking union can be seen as prerequisites to a sustainable Eurozone – but shared education and law enforcement policies are also important for trade and interaction within the EU. Further political integration is therefore being considered as a possible response to the crisis in the Eurozone.

However, this sentiment is not shared by all. Disillusionment is spreading, the UK has for years had Eurosceptic parties who want to go back to a trade bloc at most that do well in European elections, but the rise of Alternative für Deutschland even a book by a book by a former champion of European integration François Heisbourg suggests that the EU may need to put integration into reverse. EU legislation is perceived by many as an intrusion on national sovereignty and as an obstacle to democracy. Some find it especially unwise to sacrifice their sovereignty for economic benefits, when they believe they end up losing both and having to bail out weaker economies. An alternative to the status quo is for the European Union to limit itself to being merely a trade bloc where its member countries remove barriers to trade between each other (such as tariffs). This would maintain the key economic benefits of cooperation and make Europe more competitive, without alienating its members. In essence, the alternative of a trade bloc would mean preserving the Single Market, where people, services, and goods can move freely, while repatriating other powers currently at EU level to national governments.

The Single Market has been highly beneficial to the EU, and it is mostly unquestioned that it should remain (3). But can the EU succeed as a trade bloc without integration in other areas? Trade blocs exist worldwide that are reasonably successful without the involvement of a political union: NAFTA is one example. But are they really successful, and could the same policy apply to the EU?

(1) “A divided Union”, The Economist, 23 September 2004. http://www.economist.com/node/3194381

(2) Pop, Valentina. “France and Germany moving towards closer political union”, EU Observer, 30 August 2012. http://euobserver.com/economic/117367

(3) Baier, Scott L.; Bergstrand, Jeffrey H. “Do free trade agreements actually increase members’ international trade?”, Journal of International Economics. Volume 71, Issue 1. 8 March 2007. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022199606000596
