Developing countries have in the past two decades made progress in the global academic and scientific community, contributing more and more research as their economies and infrastructures improve. But they are still far behind, and as the pace of academic and technological development seems to be quickening they run the risk of being left behind or in a state of constant lag behind the more developed western nations. One of the clearest problems is language, with English being the clear lingua franca for all scientific disciplines with more than 90% of journal articles for some disciplines being published in English. [1] In Germany it has been suggested that the solution is simply to “wait for Germany to become a genuinely bilingual society, using English as the global language of science and German as the local language spoken and read by health professionals and patients.”

This is clearly not a good solution for every country as English is not as widely taught in most countries as it is in Germany leading to the problem that many researchers in non-English speaking countries find it more difficult to get their work recognised. [2] Another suggestion to correct this problem is to subsidize the translation of academic work into the native languages of developing countries, or to have journals publish in more than one language. There are already some Spanish medical journals that do this publishing in both Spanish and English. However at the moment the work seems to mostly be the other way with journals that originally published in another language providing English translations of their articles for example Springer is taking the best articles from more than 1,700 Chinese university journals and publishing English versions. The Public Library of Science journals are encouraging their contributors to not just give an English version of the work if it was originally written in another language. [3] This clearly provides some benefit to those without the necessary English language skills but does not give them access to the most recent developments in the west. To do that there would need to be much greater investment in translation from English. Such a translation project would allow developing countries to participate on a more equal footing in global academia. Opponents contend that such translation efforts will only serve to reverse the positive trend toward the universalization of a few languages for academic research; they contend that such convergence allows for a fuller globalization of academic work and to allow for the eventual full equal everyone desires.

[1] Lovgren, Stefan, ‘English in Decline as a First Language Study Says’, National Geographic News, 26 February 2004, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2004/02/0226_040226_language_2.html

[2] Vasconcelos, Sonia M.R., et al, ‘Researchers' writing competence: a bottleneck in the publication of Latin-American science?’, EMBO reports, August 2008, Vol.9, No.8, pp700-702, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2515218/

[3] Meneghini, Rogerio, and Packer, Abel L., ‘Is there science beyond English? Initiatives to increase the quality and visibility of non-English publications might help to break down language barriers in scientific communication’, EMBO Report, February 2007, Vol.8 No.2, pp.112-116, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1796769/
