Migration has greatly increased in recent years, bringing into question whether current legislation provides sufficient protections for migrants’ well-being, and at what cost. The United Nations Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families 1 tries to provide a solution to that proposed problem. The Convention was signed in 1990 and entered into force in 2003, and the Committee on Migrant Workers (CMW) monitors implementation of the convention. The treaty is meant to ensure minimum protections to all migrants, ensuring freedom from discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, sex, religion or any other status, in all aspects of work, including in hiring, conditions of work, and promotion, and in access to housing, health care and basic services. It also ensures freedom from arbitrary expulsion from their country of employment and protection from violence, physical injury, threats and intimidation by public officials or by private individuals, groups or institutions. The treaty recognizes that legal migrants have the legitimacy to claim more rights than undocumented migrants, but it stresses that undocumented migrants must see their fundamental human rights respected. Many nations have signed, but so far they are all source countries—those that migrants come from, rather than immigrate to. No Western migrant-receiving state has ratified the Convention, even though the majority of migrants live in Europe and North America. Other important receiving countries, such as Australia, the Arab states of the Persian Gulf and India have also not ratified the Convention. This means that the treaty is not in effect where the majority of migrants actually live and work. So, one of the main questions in this debate is whether these specific non-signatories should jump on-board and sign. What actual changes would ratification of the treaty actually affect? Who would they benefit, and who would they harm?

1 U.N. High Commission for Human Rights, Resolution 45/158 (1990) [International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families], December 18, 1990, http://www2.ohchr.org/english/law/cmw.htm .
