The use of children (for the purposes of this article, anyone younger than eighteen years-of-age) in warfare has been a continuous feature of all human conflicts, but declined rapidly in Europe in the first half of the twentieth century. The intensive development of the laws and customs of war that took place between the First World War and the collapse of the USSR placed an increasing emphasis on the role of supranational bodies and treaties in regulating the conduct of states in armed disputes and protecting the rights of civilians caught up in war zones.

In 1998, following the creation of ad hoc tribunals designed to investigate and punish the perpetrators of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, the Rome Statute created the International Criminal Court. Since 2002 the ICC has had jurisdiction over events occurring in the territory of parties to the Statute, or over situations referred to it by the United Nations Security Council. The ICC was intended to be complementary to the domestic law of states party to the treaty, investigating war crimes in circumstances where a state’s judiciary is unable to do so itself. The use of children in combat roles in armed conflict is prohibited by Article 8.2.26 of the Rome Statute - "Conscripting or enlisting children under the age of fifteen years into the national armed forces or using them to participate actively in hostilities" is defined as a war crime.

While a number of western liberal democracies continue to admit sixteen-year-olds to their state militaries, these recruits are usually kept away from frontline combat duties. The use of children as soldiers is much more problematic in the developing world. Statistics gathered by Human Rights Watch in 2007 indicate that between 200,000 and 300,000 children in 20 countries around the world are direct participants in armed conflicts [i] . The majority of these children fight in states with low levels of economic and political development. Some 17,000 children fought in the civil conflict that led to the breakup of Sudan. South Sudan now has a GDP of only $1546 per capita. Some 500 to 600 children [ii] are injured or killed in inter-tribal combat in Yemen- which has a per capita GDP of $1061- every year.

The ICC is taking an increasing interest in breaches of child participation controls contained in the Rome Statute and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In 2006 Thomas Lubanga, a prominent leader of a DRC based rebel faction was arrested on an ICC warrant and charged with conscripting child soldiers. Charges brought against the president of Sudan, Omar Al Bashiri, in part relate to money funnelled to client groups in the south of the country who were involved in recruiting children to pursue ethnically motivated conflicts in the region. The use of child soldiers by pro-independence Southern Sudanese rebels during this time has yet to produce a prosecution [iii] .

Although many post-colonial states may be signatories to the Rome Statute, they often govern highly plural societies that contain diverse forms of cultural and social grouping. Indeed, the representativeness of such governments, and the extent to which “fourth world” communities within the borders of established nations are consulted about participation in international institutions, is often a contentious issue within post-colonial states. In many of these communities, military participation by boys as young as twelve is considered a necessary measure for the protection of isolated settlements and an important marker of a boy’s passage into manhood.

[i] “Campaign page: Child Soldiers”, Human Rights Watch, http://hrw.org/campaigns/crp/index.htm

[ii] “Yemen’s Child Soldiers go to War”, UPI.com, 06 Jan 2010, http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2010/01/06/Yemens-child-soldiers-go-to-war/UPI-89571262808410/

[iii] ICC Cases, The International Criminal Court, http://www.icc-cpi.int/Menus/ICC/Situations+and+Cases/Cases/
