In November 2012 the UK’s International Development Secretary, Justine Greening, announced that “We [the British government] have agreed that the UK's programme of financial grant aid to India will end... We will finish existing financial grant projects responsibly, so that they all complete as planned by 2015.” [1] Prior to this draw down India was the largest recipient of British bilateral aid receiving £280million per year.

The change in policy came after the Pranab Mukherjee, at the time finance minister, told the Indian upper house “We do not require the aid… It is a peanut in our total development exercises” and the Indian Foreign Minister, Nirumpama Rao, proposed “not to avail [of] any further DFID [British] assistance with effect from 1st April 2011,” because of the “negative publicity of Indian poverty promoted by DFID”. [2] Things were not all one way as there was outcry in some areas of the British press at the Indians deciding to buy French Rafale fighters over the Eurofighter Typhoon in which Britain has a stake despite the scale of British aid. [3]

More broadly the changing economic circumstances of the two nations is prompting change. Although India is still much poorer than the United Kingdom on a per capita basis it is growing rapidly while Britain is mired in recession. India is even predicted to surpass the UK, and other Western European powers France and Germany, in terms of total GDP by 2022. [4]

With a rapidly growing economy and a large middle class India is increasingly an odd recipient for development aid. The British government defines this development aid (or Official Development Assistance) as “Grants and concessional loans for development and welfare purposes from the government sector of a donor country to a developing country or multilateral agency active in development. ODA includes the costs to the donor of project or programme aid, technical cooperation, debt forgiveness, food and emergency aid, and associated administration costs.” [5] Much of which India, and many Britons now argue India should be doing for itself rather than taking aid from abroad.

[1] Greening, Justine, ‘Update on aid to India’, Department for International Development, 9 November 2012

[2] Gilligan, Andrew, ‘India tells Britain: We don’t want your aid’, The Telegraph, 4 February 2012

[3] Shipman, Tim, and Reid, Sue, ‘Well that’s gratitude! We give India £1bn in aid, THEY snub the UK and give France £13bn jet contract’, Daily Mail, 5 February 2012

[4] Pearson, Samantha, ‘UK economy overtakes Brazil… sorry’, FT, 7 January 2013

[5] ‘Official Development Assistance’, Department for International Development, 31 October 2012
