Torture involves the use of intimidation, humiliation, discomfort and pain to extract information and confessions from prisoners and suspects held by the state. Debates on torture usually focus on its use by state actors – groups or individuals who have been given the right to use force and authority to achieve objectives decided on by a government. Torture used in other circumstances is simply criminal, something that it is the responsibility of governments to prevent, detect and punish. Amendments to the US constitution and to the intergovernmental and supranational agreements that define basic rights in other liberal democratic states prohibit the use of torture by state agents. It is seen as being a political taboo even more significant than state sanctioned killings. Not only is the objective of torture to discover information, rather than protect the security and liberty of others, torture also requires a state to actively harm and intentionally degrade the quality of life of a human being.

Following the 9/11 attacks many members of the US presidential administration began to discuss a “new normalcy”, in which the threat of a similar terrorist attack was constant and universal [i] . When an ideology comes under attack, the ability of protective bodies such as the police to anticipate and guard against aggressive actions is compromised. By September 12 2001, it was understood the world over that every citizen and every institution of every liberal state had been marked out as a potential target. A force that was once seen as threatening only the most significant symbols of liberal democracy was now directed at schools, business and train station – the smallest, most prosaic and ordinary landmarks of everyday life. Those responsible for the attacks had used the legal limitations placed on the US government’s ability to monitor citizens’ day-to-day lives for evidence of suspicious activity to keep preparations for the massacre secret.

Under these circumstances, the legal safeguards intended to prevent the American executive from violating basic liberal standards of conduct- such as the longstanding prohibition on torture- were heavily criticised. As the academic and politician Michael Posner describes it, the Bush administration claimed that “existing laws were impediments to fighting a new kind of enemy”.

The federal government felt obliged to seek out more effective and more rapid methods of intelligence gathering. The uses and applications of torture quickly became a topic of private discussions both within the Whitehouse and between senior intelligence officials [ii] .

Alberto Gonzales, The White House’s general Counsel was instructed to obtain a legal justification for the use of coercive interrogation against terrorist suspects in 2002. Orders subsequently issued by Gonzales’ office to the Department of Justice required that the US governments’ lawyers make a distinction between torture and “coercive interrogation techniques” that members of the intelligence community wished to use against captured terrorist suspects [iii] . Throughout 2002 and 2003 the findings of assistant attorney general Jay Bybee [iv] were used to justify the use of forceful interrogation against prisoners captured by US forces in Afghanistan and Iraq [v] .

Among techniques cleared for use by interrogators [vi] were intimidation by guard dogs; enforced nudity; sleep deprivation; temperature manipulation; beatings and simulated drowning [vii] .

Independently of the nuanced legal arguments made in support of these methods, other commentators have noted that the threat posed by terrorism may give rise to emergency situations where forceful interrogations, as severe as torture, may save lives. Situations of this type are called “ticking time bomb scenarios”. A captured terrorist may have information on the location and target of a timed explosive, or the destination and identity of a suicide bomber. The police or security services may not have enough time to outwit or verbally coerce the terror suspect into giving up the target of the atrocity that he has arranged. If they follow established rules and avoid causing pain to the terrorist, he may refuse to surrender the necessary information, and a fatal explosion will occur, injuring hundreds of people. Indeed, the atrocity that takes place may be as significant as 9/11. In order to save the lives’ of the terrorist’s intended targets, it may be necessary to overcome the terrorist’s ability to resist psychological coercion by using physical coercion [viii] . Hearings by Senate oversight committees in the US have confirmed that these techniques were used against inmates of Guantanamo Bay, a prison used to hold terror suspects captured in Afghanistan and Iraq by the American military.

Objections to this sort of reasoning had been based on the assumed impossibility of scenarios of this type arising in the real world. Although, as the Stanford encyclopaedia of philosophy points out, the wrong wrought by torture could be balanced against the possible benefits of saving thousands of lives, an event of this type was highly unlikely. In light of the nature and circumstances of the 9/11 attacks, however, this rationalist-realist principle was significantly weakened. The use of civilian airliners as flying suicide bombs seems to be exactly the sort of scenario that might justify the use of pain and coercion in the interests of saving lives.

Reasoning of this type might justify the use of torture in an extraordinary situation, but the anti-terror operations mounted by the US since 9/11 have yet to detect or prevent such an exceptional event. Moreover, as the instructions to the White House’s legal team made clear, George Bush and Donald Rumsfeld were not attempting to excuse or explain the use of torture to avoid unusual and atrocious events. The Bush White House wanted physical coercion to become a routine [ix] during the interrogation of terrorist suspects.

Those who supported this approach noted that the leaders of terrorist cells and organisations might have information about attacks that were months or years away from being carried out, but still posed a significant threat to thousands of civilians. It was argued that, at the very least, use of physical pain to secure information should be used against this class of terrorist. Individuals such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ramzi bin al-Shibh could possess information about a large number of planned attacks, due to be carried out in a wide range of locations. Moreover, they might also have knowledge of the mechanisms that other terrorists used to acquire funds and evade detection and capture. Donald Rumsfeld and Vice President Dick Cheyney speculated openly that it might be considered immoral or negligent for a state not to torture the commanders of terrorist organisations, in order to uphold the safety of the millions of citizens that they were charged with protecting. The use of coercive techniques that were clearly defined and approved by experts in international law was seen as being necessary safeguard against the possibility that interrogators or military personnel might use force arbitrarily or excessively.

Opponents of the use of physical coercion have repeatedly questioned the validity of the definition of torture produced by Bybee, Gonzales and Bybee’s superior John Yoo [x] . They contend that the difference between physical coercion, of the type used at Guantanamo Bay, and torture is largely semantic [xi] . In the signing statement that he appended to a 2005 Act of congress prohibiting cruel or degrading treatment of anyone held in the custody of the US authorities, George Bush stated that the US would comply with the law only in so far as it did not “compromise national security” [xii] . In his statement to the Senate subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Court, former FBI interrogator Ali Soufan disclosed that the CIA, advised by a number of private sector security organisations, was the primary advocate for the use of torture against terror suspects [xiii] . Soufan also stated that the CIA had relatively little experience of direct interrogation, having operated primarily in foreign jurisdictions and under strict secrecy.

It is argued that torture is more likely to produce false or unreliable information than verbal interrogation. An individual undergoing will always attempt to reduce or end the pain that he is being subjected to. This objective will guide his behaviour. Even if a subject possesses no useful knowledge, he is likely to lie to his captors in order to bring an end to the pain that he is being subjected to. Due to the powerlessness of torture victims, and their intimate relationship with their torturers, they may disclose fabricated information that they believe their torturer wants to hear, rather than useful factual information. In short, pain undermines an individual’s ability to reason and think rationally [xiv] ; combining interrogation with torture means that captives are less likely to disclose useful or true information.

Torture- whatever the legal terminology used to cloak it- still has the capacity to provoke moral disgust. Following the publication of the Bybee “torture memo”, and the expansion of the CIA’s coercive interrogation program, a number of senior intelligence personnel have resigned from their organisations or requested that they be assigned to alternative duties. Many of these individuals believed that participating in torture would breach the ethical standards that they had been trained to uphold. Many others believed that torturing captive would undermine their ability to conduct verbal interrogations, and to build relationships with informants and with foreign intelligence agencies. The expertise and knowledge possessed by these individuals could have been just as useful to those trying to prevent future terror attacks as the knowledge gained from captured al Qaeda leaders.

The training that dedicated terrorists undergo is designed to prepare them for operations in dictatorships and emerging democracies. Indeed, the majority of terrorist attacks prior to and since 9/11 have occurred in states that cannot be defined as liberal democracies – places such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, the states of Central Asia and Israel. Use of torture and physical violence against prisoners is common in these locations [xv] , and informers have indicated that terror organisations did their utmost to ensure that captured operatives would not respond to such treatment. Captured terrorists have been educated to expect torture and ill treatment and are more likely to adopt a defiant and uncooperative attitude if their expectations are fulfilled.

Finally, it should also be observed that all attempts to institutionalise torture- even by the Bush administration- have produced interrogation programs that take a long time to deliver meaningful information. Pain can only be used to extract information from an individual if it is applied repeatedly and for prolonged periods. The depth of the relationship that must be constructed between a torturer and his victim, and the extensive training received by many terrorists, means that torture would not offer the rapid disclosure of information that the “ticking time bomb” scenario depends on.

[i] Ashcroft, J in Huang and DiBiase (eds), 2010, pp170-174

[ii] Yoo, J in Huang and DiBiase (eds), 2010, pp74-75

[iii] Posner, M in Cole (ed), 2011, pp104-106

[iv] Yoo, J in Huang and DiBiase (eds), 2010, pp82-83. Endnotes 1, 3 and 7 are the most relevant to this discussion.

[v] Soufan, A in Cole (ed), 2011, pp89-91

[vi] “Guantanamo Bay Inquiry”. FBI Records, 21 December 2006. http://vault.fbi.gov/Guantanamo%20/122106.htm

[vii] “FBI files detail Guantanamo torture tactics”. The Guardian, 03 January 2007. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2007/jan/03/guantanamo.usa

[viii] Krauthammer, C in Cole (ed), 2011, pp71-73

[ix] “Iraq: Interrogations and torture”. Council on Foreign Relations, 17 May 2004. http://www.cfr.org/iraq/iraq-interrogation-torture/p7669 . “[The Red Cross reported] that ill-treatment during interrogation was systematic “in regard to persons arrested in connection with suspected security offences or deemed to have an ‘intelligence’ value”.

[x] Posner, M in Cole (ed), 2011, p105

[xi] Posner, M in Cole (ed), 2011, pp106-107

[xii] Posner, M in Cole (ed), 2011, p106

[xiii] Soufa, A in Cole (ed), 2011, p88

[xiv] “Waterboarding is torture”. Hitchens, C. National Post, 19 September 2011. http://fullcomment.nationalpost.com/2011/09/19/christopher-hitchens-theres-no-doubt-in-my-mind-waterboarding-is-torture/

[xv] Soufa, A in Cole (ed), 2011, p88
