The focus of this debate is quite specific. In many countries in the world the recreational use of Cannabis is so widespread as to be beyond debate. In other countries it’s use in any form is so vigorously pursued by the authorities that there seems little chance of anything resembling decriminalization, let alone legalization, happening within the foreseeable future.

However, there is one issue that is not in dispute; that marijuana has a palliative effect in the treatment of several diseases, many of them severe and some terminal. However it is rare in any nation (there are a few, such as Canada [i] ) where governments are required to offer it as a drug in government funded medical programs and pharmacies.

Some context is useful here. There are many - possibly most – drugs in pharmacies around the world that, if taken inappropriately, can function as narcotics and can be perilous. Morphine is the most obvious example of such a substance – its illegal counterpart, heroine, is an extremely lucrative street drug. It is almost definitional about drugs that they can be helpful or harmful, depending on how they are taken and by whom. Even relatively benign painkillers such as codeine and vicodin have the capacity to be addictive and dangerous if taken in the wrong way and yet are freely available in pharmacies around the world.

This is why the word “require” is so important in the motion. This is not a debate on the legalization of cannabis for recreational use, rather it’s primary focus is the refusal of governments to make use of a freely available drug with a proven medical benefit. Government might well point out that since the production of the drug is illegal in much of the world and its importation is illegal in many of the countries where such a regulation would be imposed.

There would, of course, be issues such as the control of circulation should such a measure to be introduced. There are other practical concerns, but these have been addressed in those jurisdictions where the medical use of marijuana has been legalized. That said they are all jurisdictions in which the recreational use of the drug is widespread and either decriminalized or so commonplace as to not even be a matter for comment, let alone prosecution.

There are many commodities in which there is both a legal and illegal trade so from the point of view of the proposition, there is precedent. However, it may not be a comfortable one as the analogies are mostly trades such as guns and similar controlled products.

[i] Health Canada, ‘Frequently Asked Questions – Medical Use of Marihuana’, hc-sc.gc.ca, 13 June 2005, http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/dhp-mps/marihuana/about-apropos/faq-eng.php
