Cities have become hubs of innovation, capital, and culture. In 2012, 37% of Sub-Saharan Africa’s population were classified as ‘urban’ [1] . With society suggested to be entering a predominantly ‘urban’ age by 2050 to what extent are African cities adopting the right approaches to become global players? World cities have been defined as command and control centres of the global economy [2] ; and the definition has resulted in the compilation of a hierarchised list of cities [3] . Africa has seven cities on the list.

In encouraging the shift to ‘global’ status African governments have adopted multiple tactics, and strategies, to rebuild and redesign African cities. One such approach is forced evictions. Forced evictions are permanent, or temporary, evictions which occur without appropriate protection – legal or other. With a desire to remove ‘informal’ structures and the image of ‘unplanned’ cities governments have come to adopt forced evictions as a way to clean up African cities and recreate perceptions of what African cities are, and can do. A lack of data makes it difficult to accurately track the number of forced evictions. However, with the growing desire to hold global events - such as FIFA World Cup, create aesthetic environments and a sense of ‘organisation’ in African cities, forced evictions have risen across the continent. The growing prevalence of forced evictions has raised debates over human rights, social injustice, and the unsustainable role of planning being used across African cities.

Are forced evictions necessary to redefine the position of African cities; are they a natural path of progression; and are they resulting in desired results?

[1] World Bank Database, 2013.

[2] See: GaWC, 2001. World cities are specified based on their degree of integration to the city networks - calculated by the presence of advanced producer services (i.e. transnational firms of accounting, advertising, finance, insurance and law) and network connections.

[3] See further readings: GaWC, 2010.
