The Republican Party has traditionally been thought of as the party of the economy, leaving more ‘social’ goals to the Democrats in the public’s mind. It is interesting to consider whether this remains the case in the post-Bush era. Equally, it is interesting to consider where the Republican economic message would come from at a time when their old mantra of ‘deregulate or die’ has been tarnished by the banking crisis.

When President Bush took over from President Clinton he received, by way of legacy, the longest continuous period of growth in US history and a budget surplus of $4,000 billion – so large that it was anticipated that the US debt could be paid off by 2020 and the main source of political argument revolved around what to do with the money; cut taxes or improve services. Unemployment stood at 4%, a forty year low, following the creation of 15m jobs. The US economy represented one quarter of the entire output of the world [i] .

During the Bush era “the median household income declined, poverty increased, childhood poverty increased even more, and the number of Americans without health insurance spiked. By contrast, the country's condition improved on each of those measures during Bill Clinton's two terms, often substantially.” [ii] It is however, worth noting that the worst global economic crash in living memory happened at the tail end of Bush’s tenure.

Republicans in the 2008 Presidential campaign pointed to what they saw as the benefits of the Bush presidency, insisting that they had produced, “More than 6.6 million new jobs have been created since August 2003. Our 4.1 annual growth rate [sic] is superior to all other major industrialized nations. The Dow has set record highs multiple times in the past several weeks. Productivity is up, and the deficit is down. Real, after-tax income has grown by 15 per cent since 2001. Inflation has remained low.” [iii]

Whichever version of events you choose, as far as the perception of many voters is concerned the Republicans are the party to turn to in tough economic times. [iv] The party contends that free markets and low taxes deliver economic growth and that Democrats are ideologically unwilling to deliver either. They further insist that the Democratic Party’s tendency to impose regulation in areas such as environmental protection and workers’ rights has red tape strangling business. They contend that, “Democrats believe the economy is too complicated to be left to free enterprise alone, and therefore must be subjected to ever-increasing controls by the federal government.” [v]

[i]
Steve Schifferes. “Bill Clinton’s Economic Legacy. BBC Website. 15 January 2001.

[ii] Ronald Brownstein. “Closing The Book On the Bush Legacy”. Atlantic. 11 September 2009.

[iii] Mona Charen. “13 reasons to vote Republican on November on November 7 th.” Townhall.com. 2008.

[iv] Henry J. Reske. “Poll: Americans Trust GOP, Not Obama on Economy”. Newsmax.com. 6 October 2011.

[v] Arizona Republican Party. “GOP vs. Democrats.”
