Universities provide higher education to people who have completed school and most also act as centres for academic study. Some universities will specialise in a small number of subjects, while the largest can cover almost every field. University education covers both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. The definition of exactly which institutions do and do not have degree-awarding powers varies between countries.

For the purposes of this debate, we will be looking particularly at discouraging non-vocational courses – those which are not directly required for any career. This would include degrees such as Mathematics or History, and exclude those like Medicine. (Note that some subjects, such as Law and Chemical Engineering, have both academic and vocational aspects.) We will imagine a policy along the following lines: cut the amount of funding given to universities by the government, shape the funding criteria to prioritise academia and put the rest of the money into different kinds of vocational training – for example, the University Technical Colleges being set up in Liverpool, UK. [1]

In many Western countries, a large proportion of students who leave school go to university. In the USA, the proportion is typically around 50%, [2] while the UK is slowly increasing from 40%. [3] The long-term trend has been that proportions of people going to university increases – in the UK, this has gone from around 5,000 in 1920, to 100,000 in 1990 to 350,000 in 2011. [4]

University education is the highest level of education which is still reasonably common, and so graduates have a certain status and respect. They produce specialists in many fields, particularly in science-related careers. This makes them a source of social mobility, as people who leave with a good degree are able to break into well-paid careers. As well as this, the fact that they are melting pots for people from multiple backgrounds – and often multiple countries – gives young people what may be their first serious exposure to people who are different from them, and this contributes to tolerance.

However, with the increase in the proportion of young people going to university, degrees are suffering from “inflation,” where they are too common to hold their value. Increasingly, recruiters are looking for skills rather than knowledge, and many companies complain that graduates are not leaving properly prepared for work. As well as being bad for employers, this means that many students are – at least to an extent – wasting their time.

[1] Houghton, Alistair, ‘How University Technical Colleges will plug the skills gap’, Liverpool Daily Post, 16 May 2013

[2] Facts for features, ‘Back to School: 2011-2012’, United States Census Bureau, 27 June 2011

[3] Adams, Richard, ‘Number of students going on to higher education almost reaches 50%’, The Guardian, 24 April 2013

[4] Bolton, Paul, ‘Education: Historical Statistics’, House of Commons Library, 27 November 2012 (pdf)
