History reclassified as state secret: the case of Xu Zerong

In 2002, historian Xu Zerong was sentenced to 13 years in jail for leaking state secrets. The classification of the leaked materials as "top secret" came only after he had been sentenced, writes Timothy Garton Ash.

The case

Xu Zerong (AKA David Tsui), an Oxford-educated historian based in Hong Kong, was detained and later arrested by the Chinese authorities in 2000. He was accused of leaking state secrets by sending copies of materials about the Korean War to a South Korean scholar and in January 2002, sentenced to 13 years in jail. The classification of those materials, from the 1950s, as “top secret” came only after the court in Shenzhen had jailed him. The court also accused him of selling unauthorised Hong Kong publications in mainland China.

According to Xu, the real reason for his arrest and imprisonment is related to a magazine article he had written in 2000 on a radio transmission station set up in Hunan Province, China, to broadcast propaganda for the Communist Party of Malaya in the 1970s and early 1980s. He thought that article had infuriated Beijing, although he believed that his work was “purely scholarly, without any link to any organisation or social movement”. During his time in prison he could only read limited materials due to restrictions, but had completed a book to point out the failings of Marxist theory. He was allowed to bring the manuscript out when he was released in June 2011.

Timothy Garton Ash's opinion

Our 10th draft principle suggests that we must be free to challenge limits to freedom of expression justified on grounds such as national security. This obviously includes classifications of secrecy. It is impossible to see how the arrest and long imprisonment of Xu Zerong can be justified in terms of legitimate concerns about national security. The retrospective reclassification of the documents as “top secret” suggests very strongly that this is rather an example of the arbitrary, illegitimate use of state power.

- Timothy Garton Ash

Debaters’ Note

This motion expands from the egregious specifics of this particular case. There is a very fine line over the point at which issues which may have once been sensitive on the grounds of national security cease to be. How far can a nation go in terms of protecting information that they may wish to use again at some point in the future or preserving historical myth about great leaders of the past. Most nations have the capacity to prevent certain records from ever reaching the light of day but this is for the most part rarely used. There is a general rule of thumb that, once all of the participants are dead, then everything is free game but is that a sensible rule or does it just act to protect former tyrants – or incompetents – from legitimate public scrutiny during their lifetime? Proposition would need to give a clear definition of these and other issues. Where is the debate set and how long can information be protected? Critically they need to decide who should decide when information can be released - political leaders tend to be reluctant to encourage prying into the actions of their predecessors, in case people get a taste for it. For many states some historical incidents are so closely tied to the continuing interest of the state it is inconceivable that they would ever want them investigated too closely; this particularly means the revolution that created the state or, conversely, the defeated coup that allowed its continued existence. Wars a nation has won and underpin a national mythology can be uncomfortable to examine too closely for generations after the final shot is fired.

Read this case and more similar cases on Free Speech Debate
