The model of the nation-state has traditionally provided the basis for international relations. However, there are many problems which are impossible for individual nation-states to solve and which require international cooperation, for example environmental problems, third world poverty, international law, trading rules, etc. And cosmopolitanism is coming back into fashion; many people consider there to be such a thing as an international society with international laws. This has serious implications for the old nation-state model and evokes the possibility of the United Nations evolving into a popularly elected "world government". Should (and could) such a government exist? ‘World government’ refers to the idea of all humankind united under one common political authority. Arguably, it has not existed so far in human history, yet proposals for a unified global political authority have existed since ancient times — in the ambition of kings, popes and emperors, and the dreams of poets and philosophers.

Note: There are many possible models that can be proposed when debating motions on world government. Each model yields a slightly different debate. Here is one option:

The proposed world government would represent a qualitative advance over the United Nations of today. It would comprise legislative, executive and judicial branches; its high officials would be elected by its constituent population; and it would possess its own military force and powers of taxation. It would be federal in form, so that the identity and institutions of its member nations would be fully preserved and protected. The voting system in the world legislature would embody a balanced separation of powers so that neither the populous poorer nations of the world nor the less populous richer nations could impose their preferences on the other. Membership in the world federation would not be obligatory on all nations, and moreover, member nations could freely depart from the world federation at any time at their own unilateral discretion. Member nations could also retain control over whatever independent armed forces they feel essential to their national interests. The expectation is that after a sufficiently lengthy period of gradual evolution, these retained rights of the member nations would become unimportant in a practical sense. As this happens, the world government would gradually become more authoritative and effective, while remaining democratic and benign.
