This debate will in large part be focused in the UK. At the time of writing, press freedom in the United Kingdom has become a significant issue as a result of the phone tapping scandal and the subsequent Leveson Inquiry into the Culture, Ethics and Practices of the British Media .

The British media has long resisted any formal regulation as an industry and many feel that there has been a tendency among some members of the profession to abuse this fact. Certainly the British tabloid press has a reputation worldwide for being more aggressive and invasive than many comparable publications around the world. The scandal led to the closure of the Sunday paper the News of the World (NoW) and has now engulfed the whole of News International, seeing both Rupert and James Murdoch facing questions from a parliamentary committee and arrest warrants being handed out to senior staff.

Although this debate focusses on the UK, the questions it raises are easy to place in an international context. Primarily the question is: To what extent can the media be treated as just another industry? Many argue that journalists have a unique role in holding politicians and other official bodies to account and that this is undermined if they are subject to government oversight. They further point out that in most jurisdictions they are subject to libel and slander laws. The British media is currently subject to regulation by the Press Complaints Commission which comprises members of the newspaper industry and representatives drawn from the public (the latter form a majority). This system has been criticised by many as being too weak.

Proponents of greater regulation point not only to the excesses of the tabloid press- of which phone hacking is simply the most recent example- but to their obsession with celebrity gossip and the extents to which they will go to get it. For example the paparazzi associated with the British tabloids were widely criticised for the pursuit of Princess Diana, actions which were believed by many to have led to her death. It has also been alleged that they are quicker to publish stories than to retract them when they are demonstrated to be false.

The issue is far from simple. As Alan Rusbridger, editor of the left-liberal daily broadsheet The Guardian, pointed out to the inquiry, it was an investigative journalist that broke the story of phone-hacking. The right-wing Daily Mail also vaulted its role in bringing the murderers of Stephen Lawrence to book after extensive campaigning during and after the police’s investigation into the crime.

An additional complicating factor was the involvement of senior figures in the British establishment- notably politicians and senior police officers- in varying degrees of collusion with the media. This last factor is particularly difficult, as it raises the issue of who would be in a position to regulate the press. It will clearly impact upon the ability of the media to root out corruption in either political circles or within the police force or judiciary if any of those bodies has direct control over them. On the other hand they have proved spectacularly incapable of regulating themselves.

On a practical note, it is tempting to commit a slippery slope fallacy in this debate – the idea that regulating the press is the first step on the road to a totalitarian state where the media is nothing more than a mouthpiece for the government. There may well be some truth in this but it is important not to overplay it. In the age of the Internet and with no shortage of opposition politicians it would be hard to see how the tabloid press could be much more slavishly loyal to whichever party they may have chosen to back at a given time.

Read more about freedom of the press and free speech on Free Speech Debate
