This discussion starts from the point of view that sexual education classes should be given at schools. But does this mean that so-called “safe sex” should also be promoted within these lessons? Safe sex is the practice of sexual activity in a manner that reduces the risk of infection with sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) such as Chlamydia and HIV/AIDS, typically by use of condoms. Safe sex also includes sexual practices that do not involve penetration.

Traditionally sexual education lessons have focused on covering the biological facts about human reproduction, and warnings against unsafe sexual practices. Often today sex education is combined with relationships education, in an attempt to place sex in a broader emotional, social and family context. But now every day more and more people talk about “safe sex” and how teenagers should be more informed about protection against STDs.

Despite the worries some people have about whether sex should ever be seen as entirely risk-free, every day this so-called "safe sex" is promoted more and more as a solution for the epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases amongst teenagers. But what if the promotion of "safe sex" has the opposite effect for which it was introduced in Sexual Education classes? In 2011 the proportion of British 16-19 year olds who had had unprotected sex rose to 26% and 45% did not consider themselves to be well informed about contraception. [1] Opponents argue that today sexual education and promoting safe sex are mostly considered the same thing, while it isn't and shouldn't be. They say it is one thing to inform teenagers about sex and its risks, and quite another to promote and encourage them to use "safe sex" as prevention.

Other issues include whether parents should have the ability to ‘opt-out’ of sex education for their children – or indeed whether the children themselves should be able to opt-out; whether or not sex education should be done with a particular focus (such as promotion of abstinence); and whether or not faith schools should be compelled to teach elements of a sex-education syllabus (such as on homosexual relationships) which run contrary to their beliefs.

[1] The Guardian. ‘More young people having unsafe sex.’ 26
th September 2011.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/education/2011/sep/26/young-people-unsafe-sex-contraception
