College football is the only major sport, collegiate and professional, that does not have a standard playoff at the end of the season to determine a champion. The creation of the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) in 1999 was intended to cure some of these problems, by offering up a tiered system of bowl-games that matched equivalently seeded teams against each other, and which matched up - supposedly - the two best teams in the country against one another in the national championship. Specifically, there are five championships “Bowls” meaning ten teams are selected for these championships. The ten teams selected include the six conference champions from selected automatically qualifying conferences and four others. The top two of these ten are then selected for the national championship.

Yet, this system has been met with significant criticism over the years, particularly from the supporters of teams that have gone undefeated, and yet who have not received an invitation to play in the BCS championship. An undefeated Auburn was denied such a chance in 2004, Boise State’s undefeated 2006 season - which included a win over heavily-favoured Oklahoma in the Fiesta Bowl - was not worthy to be rewarded with a shot at the National Championship, and Utah's undefeated team in 2009 was also denied a chance. Supporters of these teams and others have argued that a playoff - which would likely take the form of 16 or 8 teams - would give a fairer chance to such teams to demonstrate that they are the rightful national champions. The idea has gained so much support over the years that a bill was drafted in the Senate in 2009 called the College Football Playoffs Act of 2009. President-elect Barack Obama gave support to the idea of an 8-team playoff shortly after his election, saying, "I’m going to throw my weight around a little bit, "I think it’s the right thing to do."

Buoyed by such support, the idea of college football playoffs continues to gain momentum, with debate becoming increasingly intense.
