Zambia’s health profile remains bleak. The country’s health profile showcases a life expectancy of 54/56 years for male/females; a child mortality rate of 89 per 1,000 births; and 232 deaths due to HIV/AIDS per 100,000 of the population (GHO, 2013). Around 6.1% of the GDP is spent on health; and of greater concern is the loss of doctors and nurses. Zambia is identified as having a ‘human resource crisis’, with one of the worst ratios of doctors to population. In Zambia, the ratio stands at 1 to 15,000 for doctors and 1 to 1,500 for nurses (Makasa, 2008); while the WHO recommend a ratio of 1:5,000 for doctors, and 1:700 for nurses, in African nation-states. Nevertheless the human resource shortage continues to widen through Zambia’s ‘brain-drain’, with trained health professionals continuing to immigrate. The lack of trained health professionals, and Zambia’s growing population, has raised concern but it has also resulted in innovative methods in order to provide solutions. The Virtual Doctor Project (VDP) being pioneered in Zambia is a case in point. With 61% of the population, in 2011, identified as cellular subscribers the project provides a means to ensure access to health care is granted.

The project works on providing vital health care through the internet and mobile broadband. The telemedicine healthcare will connect patients and clinic staff in rural areas to medical doctors and specialists located all over the world. The networks formed provide ‘virtual doctors’ that will assist in providing precise, quick, diagnosis; and treatment for people living in remote areas. Zimbabwean medical officers work in a mobile clinic, visiting rural locations. Visited patients are screened with appropriate treatment provided. If additional information is required, or the doctors do not know the cause of the problem, patient details can be sent to a network of global medical experts for further advice. The project has three key objectives. First, broadening the scope of patients able to access treatment; secondly, reducing the need to go to distant health centres and unnecessary mortality as a result of late, or inadequate, diagnosis; and finally, improving the efficiency of patient care through knowledge transfers and faster treatment. This debate focuses on the VDP to explore whether such objectives can be fulfilled. Additionally, the project remains of interest due to the technological shift occurring within Africa. Can technology provide a means to fill Zambia’s health care gap?
