Immigration is an increasingly divisive topic in the European Union as there has been a rapid increase in the numbers of migrants, both economic migrants and asylum seekers, crossing into Southern Europe across the Mediterranean and through Turkey into Greece. The large numbers, a record 107,500 in July 2015, have caused increasing pressure in some individual European countries who are at the entry points; Greece, Hungary, Italy, Malta, and to a lesser extent Spain. And the crisis also affects those countries who take in the migrants, such as Germany which is expecting as many as 750,000 asylum seekers in 2015. [1]

However we should not think of this as a strictly European problem. The causes of migration from developing countries have been diverse and not just about poverty and the economy. The war in Syria in particular has resulted in over 4 million people having fled the country and 7.6 million internally displaced. [2] Many of those who flee have not attempted the long and dangerous journey to the developed world of the OECD but instead have stayed as close to their own homes as possible, to take a couple of examples; Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey in the case of refugees from Syria, and Pakistan for those who have fled the instability in Afghanistan since 1979.

The increased awareness of the problem in the developed world has lead to increased efforts to come up with ideas to stem the flow of migrants but so far only Australia has attempted anything similar to providing aid to developing countries in return for taking in migrants and in their case the cooperation is from Naru and Papua New Guinea hosting a detention centres for the processing of asylum applications, the legality of which has been questioned. [3] The proposal would be to increase aid from the OECD countries to any country that is willing to take in large numbers. This would for the most part not prevent the intial migration but would involve migrants being moved to the participating countries from the OECD countries once they arrive. A potential addition to the scheme would be providing aid to developing countries along migration routes to send the migrants directly to those countries taking them in.

[1] ‘Europe migrant crisis: Surge in numbers at EU borders’, BBC News, 18 August 2015, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-33972632

[2] ‘Syrian Arab Republic, OCHA, May 2015, http://www.unocha.org/syria

[3] Doyle, Julie, and Tlozek, Eric, ‘Offshore processing challenge: Greens to press for concessions as Government tries to rush through last-minute law change’, abc news, 24 June 2014, http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-06-25/senate-to-sit-until-offshore-immigration-detention-secured/6571466
