We should ban cosmetic surgery because of the impact that it has on people's emotional health and the financial costs that it imposes on people as well.
So in order to show why we think that these harms are likely to be realized, we're going to first talk to you about how legalized cosmetic surgery leads to an culture in which cosmetic surgery is glorified, and it creates false ideals of beauty, and that ultimately this is what leads to those harms.
So how do we so how does cosmetic surgery do this.
So we would say that cosmetic surgery oftentimes leads to people changing their body in ways that they otherwise shouldn't.
Whether it's models that are like are plastered around on advertisements to look in a certain way, or advertisements that say that you can look better if you get something like a botox or a breast or a breast augmentation surgery.
We believe that these kinds of procedures are what leads to an entire culture where ultimately this is the expectation for how you should look.
And we believe it is when the a when a culture creates this kind of an expectation for beauty, it means that cosmetic surgery oftentimes is something that people feel pressured into getting, something that they feel that they must get in order to feel wanted, attracted or lovable.
So why do we think that this is harmful for people's emotional health.
Because first and foremost quite simply, this means that most people are not going to be able to meet a societal ideal of beauty without engaging in these cosmetic surgery.
This means that in order for people to feel comfortable in their own skin, they have to go and pay for a procedure.
That's obviously something that is not good and something that we shouldn't encourage within a society.
But additionally we think that since oftentimes a whole lot of people aren't going to be able to access cosmetic surgery, whether it's for economic reasons, or parental consent reasons, or simply not knowing how to do it, or being afraid of the procedure altogether, this means that a whole lot of people are going to have a low sense of self esteem and a lower sense of self worth, because they're not going to feel like they look the same as people in advertisements, or look like the prettiest people at school, or the most attractive people who are going to look these kinds of ways.
So why do we think that this is incredibly problematic.
Given that there is honestly a higher prevalence then in a lot of cases for things like depression or other forms of mental illness, we would say that it's incredibly important to make sure that we encourage people to have a healthier outlook on their body and a higher sense of self worth.
But this is something that is directly discouraged by a world in which cosmetic surgery is legalized.
And the next thing that I want to talk about under this, finally is about the financial cost that this is often going to impose on people.
What do we mean by this?
So I already talked about how cosmetic surgery leads to a culture in which you're likely going to see people want to pursue this for in order to look better.
This is problematic because we think that in a lot of ways these procedures can be quite expensive, they can run up margined cost margins of thousands of dollars.
So when people are coerced into spending thousands of dollars on frivolous nonsense, they obviously have less money for other things as well, things that be could be quite important for them like food, support, or other things that can make them happy overall, like vacation time.
But we also think that this is quite bad in general, because what this is essentially amounting to is society coercing people in a way so they would'nt spend this money otherwise.
Something I think is a real problem.
So the final thing that I want to talk about is about how this uniquely harms poor people.
Because we think that oftentimes there's a lot of negative stereotypes that fall around poor people, like in america for example poor people are often seen if there in a racialized sense, poor people who are minorities are often seen as more hyper sexualized or more unattractive in certain ways, while poor white people are often made fun of for things like missing teeth or likes like that.
We would say that oftentimes this is in many ways contributing to a buyer culture in which cosmetic surgery exists, and the expectations that you're going to look a certain way.
And we think that in a lot of ways this creates a distain for certain groups of people in society, a distain which can also ultimately drive policies that we see of far greater importance.
So it is for all of those reasons we think that you should ban cosmetic surgery.