We should introduce compulsory voting, because turnout is one of the absolute most important things in a democratic society, and, I think compulsory voting is going to increase turnout.
So, let's start by talking about the problem of turnout.
One of the biggest problems plaguing a lot of democratic societies is a lack of participation.
So, when you look at a place like the united states, you can only more or less expect like fifty to sixty percent of people participating, I believe, in most in a presidential election.
In mid term elections, or local elections, numbers are often even lower, and a whole lot of people aren't participating.
And additionally, in a lot of countries around the world , this is a similar problem, like I believe participation in the the UK prime minister election that took place a couple of days ago, I believe participation hovered in, like, somewhere in the sixties, and it historically high turnout.
So, the problem with this is, that when you have numbers like that, you're a democracy, but it seems like a huge portion, like millions of people, aren't participating in the process.
And, even if they're not participating in the process, in order for the state to be just, it still has to obey the will of the people, and it's therefore important to make sure that, it's as easy for people to participate as possible.
I think compulsory voting makes it more likely that people are going to participate, in two ways.
First and foremost, people don't want to get fined, people don't want to face the possibility of minor levels of punishment, and people just like don't want to deal with that.
So, people are probably going to vote to avoid that.
But moreover, when voting is seen as something that is, like, your civic duty, rather than something as that you're obligated to do, it gives people more latitude to suppress votes in some ways in line with political incentives.
So, when you look at places like america, it's easier to have your elections on a work day, where it's hard for some people to get off from work, and it could be more inaccessible, it's easier to make it more difficult for people to vote by mail or electronically, it's easier to make it so that people can't vote, by like exclusionary voter ID practices, it's easier to put elections all on different days, at different times, to make it harder for people to vote, but when you make voting compulsory, and people face the possibility of getting punished for not voting, I think that there's going to be a whole lot of pressure to make sure that, if people have to vote, then voting is much more accessible to people.
And, I think that that's absolutely great for political participation, and I think that the result of this is that more people are going to participate, and you're going to see spikes in turnout.
That's huge, because it means that the state is more representative.
Policy is going to be more representative to the politicians, politicians can act more powerfully and decisively, because they have a stronger mandate of the people, and there's not like this like possibility of like, well, half the people didn't participate, and a couple of thousand votes in one or two areas can swing the entire election.
You're gonna have much more of a possibility of, like, what the what people actually want.
So, for all those reasons, compulsory voting should be introduced.