We should keep three strikes laws for a few big reasons.
First, because these crimes are incredibly bad crimes even if they're perceived as minor felonies, and they're ones that we need to deter.
And I think that in addition to the fact these are bad and we need to deter people from doing them, I think that when people commit crimes over and over again, there is no reason to believe why they won't keep doing it, so you need to protect the population from these people.
So, let's talk about these kinds of things.
I think that it's important to first start with an overview, that the reason why we punish people when we we give people prison sentences isn't just to punish people.
If you murder someone, we're not putting you in prison just because you deserve a punishment for doing a bad thing.
We're also doing we also have laws in place because we don't want people to do these things in the first place, and because we want people who are willing to do these kind of things to stay away from the rest of society, to not be able to murder or hurt more people.
So, that's what this is going to be about, about deterrence and about isolation of people for protection.
So, let's first start by talking about deterrence.
I think that it's important to note that these crimes are oftentimes bad harms, and that there's never really a victimless crime.
Even if it's seen as like a minor felony, and you're just getting a long prison sentence for in accumulation of minor felonies, minor felony can be things like minor theft of things, so like someone's computer or like robbing a store.
It could mean minor it could be like minor instances of assault, where you like you like abuse several women, or like your girlfriend a couple of like at various points in time.
These are things that are still severe in my opinion, and these are things that are worthy of being punished.
I think that therefore you want to stop people from doing these things, and I think that the best way to do that is by a greater deterrence threat, because when there's a perceived lack of importance given to like the severity of these crimes, that is because of the fact that they're associated with only small minor prison sentences, possibly for felony it could just be probation or things like that, or parole or whatever.
And I think that therefore, when you say if you keep doing something you're going to be punished for twenty five years to life in prison, it says that the accumulation of keep doing these felonies over and over again does not suggest that it could be tolerated, and I think that people are going to be less likely to commit these crimes, because they're going to have greater punishment associated with them.
People are going to recognize and internalize the consequences of these so called minor felonies that they're committing.
But I also think that this is important as far as isolating people and protecting the population.
It's important to note that if someone commits the same crime or a similar crime or a similar felony three times, there's no reason to really believe why they're not just going to keep doing this crime over and over again.
Like if you get caught doing a bad thing three times, I don't understand why they wouldn't do it a fourth time or a fifth time, and this is bad because this because every additional time is another person that's getting assaulted, another person that's getting stolen from.
These are things that the government has an obligation to stop and an obligation to protect people from.
And I think that that's therefore a very logical grounds to put someone in prison longer, if you can't trust that person to not keep stealing, to not keep hurting people, then they should be imprisoned for a longer amount of time.
And you're by isolating this person from the rest of the population, it means that they can't steal from someone a fourth time or a fifth time.
So, three strikes laws help people doing that, and they make sure that the people are actually protected better.
And for all those reasons, we should definitely keep three strikes laws.