We should not ban frats becasue banning frats won't do any good, it unfairly targets frats and the consequences will actually be a whole lot worse.
Let's start by talking about why the consequences of banning frats will be worse.
And I think that the biggest reason for this is because you can ban oficial affiliation with frats, you can ban frats being on school campuses, and you can refuse to endorse them but you can't actually ban frats in their totality.
What this would ultimately create if you tried to ban frats is a situation like you see it places like brandeis where frats aren't formally recognized but but nevertheless exist in an informal capacity off campus because like obviously you can't stop people from getting houses off campus with their friends and having people over and you can't stop people from just like associating with other people as individuals off campus that's like a clear like constitutional issue their freedom of association.
So there's really nothing that you can actually do about banning fraternities in an off campus informal capacity, so really the comparative is would you rather have fraternities be on campus in a more fashion that is easier to regulate or would you rather them be off campus in a more informal capacity.
And I think it's obvious that it's better to have them on campus because when they're off campus, first and foremost university health and safety resources aren't going to be able to readily access.
You can't call university police, you have to call regular police if there's any problems there which most people are unwilling to do because they're afraid of consequences.
Same with EMT's and paramedics, people are probably more willing to reach out to their university for resources than actual authorities where they may be worried about consequences.
When they're off campus you're not able to get things like bartenders, you're not able to make sure that there's like people monitoring the event because they're happening in like a safer area rather than in like a basement in some random person's house half a mile away from campus.
So all of those things make it more likely that the worst things that frats do are just going to escalate, whether it's hazing, whether it's sexual assault, whether it's like other problematic behaviors, those things aren't going to go away they're just going to get worse because now they're happening in a less regulatable fashion.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about how this unfairly targets frats anyway, because obviously all of the problematic things that fraternities do whether it's hazing whether it's like contributing to rape culture or anything like that anything that you could name that a frat does that's bad isn't necessarily unique to the frat.
Obviously sexual assaults and things like that don't just happen in fraternities, don't just happen at frat parties.
They're a part of like a widespread culture and I don't think that getting rid of frats is actually going to change a whole lot as far as like the way that like women feel safe on campus probably much more effective would be just like trying to make it so that men are less likely to be problematic rather than just trying to ban organizations that that like contribute to these kinds of things.
You're not really attacking the root cause of the problem you're just kind of attracting like attacking a symptom of it or like a method of it.
But I think also beyond that obviously there's other organizations that operate similarly there is hazing in like parties and things like that for sports teams, like other clubs and things like that do that do that too like the brandeis debate teams has throne parties before like so obviously like you can't just like fully regulate these kinds of behaviors it's simply an impossible thing to do and it would be an unfair thing to do because ultimately frats engage in similar behaviors to a lot of other entities.
So for all those reasons, don't ban frats.