Biofuels are great, and we should absolutely subsidize them, because the subsidies are ultimately going to drive greater support, and investment, and innovation, and creation in this field, which is going to be absolutely crucial for making sure that you get cheaper fuel sources, more available and accessible fuel sources sources, and greener fuel sources.
So, let's break all of this down.
First, why do I think that government subsidies and investment in biofuels is crucial to its survival?
And I think that the reason for this is because, right now these are still growing technologies, growing sources of alternative energy, that can be used to replace the currently ingrained like more standard sources of fuel, that we use.
So, I think that when the government subsidizes these things, it makes it much more economically feasible for people to try to make innovations in biofuels.
That means trying to find ways to make biofuels cheaper, trying to find ways to make biofuels more efficient.
These are all things that I think are incredibly important for moving biofuels as a viable option forward, but additionally I think that, when you when you subsidize biofuels, and just the process of bringing more people into it also creates more of an economies of scale, for it creates more of an economies of scale for biofuels.
So, that, sense more people are going to now be working on it, and it's going to be more production of it, and more like cost decreases it, and things like that, from the competition, all of these are going to mean that, like at the next level, manufacturers are gonna be more incentivized to create things that accommodate biofuels, and these set off like chain reaction in ways that, really ingrain biofuels as actual part of the economy.
So, I think that, that's going to be great, because first, biofuels are just simply a lot more sustainable, and they're going to be a lot better for the climate.
And, this is, by itself, the most important thing that you can possibly consider in this debate, because, making sure that you have a cleaner source of energy, given how many like billions of billions of people around the world like drive, or give off some kind, or use some kind of non biofuel for like heating or anything else.
This is a drastic way that you can decrease dependence on oftentimes like dirty pollutants, like coal, or having to like extract oil at a great environmental risk, or not having to release as much heat, or CO two emissions into the atmosphere, which leads to global warming, and all those bad things associated with it, all of that could be benefited.
But, additionally I think that biofuel is going to be , when it's further developed, a lot more accessible, because anyone can use animal manure, or food scraps, or any other kinds of things, like plants, any other kinds of things as fuel.
These are things that are just wildly widely available, just about everywhere around the world.
So, it also means that fuel is going to be a lot more accessible, it's not going to cost as much, so if you're like a poor community, or if you're a poor country maybe, it's going to be a lot cheaper for you to industrialize, and to gain access to a lot of resources, because cost of basic energy are going to go down.
And finally, I think that it's important to look at the bigger picture, about biofuel subsidies.
Because, at the end of the day, even if we're talking about like tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies for biofuels, the possible economic payoffs that we're talking about are essentially like invaluable, we're talking about the like saving of the world, in terms of climate change, or billions of dollars in saving in energy costs being slashed entirely in the long run.
And, at the end of the day, these kinds of investments just aren't that much money for a government to make.
They're incredibly reasonable, and they have very likely a good payout.
So, for all those reasons, we should subsidize biofuels.