We should abolish the double jeopardy defense because it is affirmatively justified to ultimately achieve the purposes of justice, and secondarily, double jeopardy is unnecessary because abuses of it will be self regulating in nature given practical constraints.
So let's start by talking about why double jeopardy is affirmatively justified.
So keep in mind that the likely reason somebody is going to be having this debate and discussion in the first place of trying somebody for a crime that they were already not convicted of, is because they probably have to have some reason to do so.
We would posit that the likely reason for this is because some kind of new evidence comes up that would possibly lead to an actual substantive change in the outcome of the case itself.
So this new evidence can come in the form of say like maybe like more modern day DNA evidence, it could come in the form of a confession, or come in the form of like new witnesses that maybe were too afraid to testify beforehand.
There is any number of circumstances that are fairly plausible under which there might be different evidence that could that was concealed before the trial that could substantively change an outcome.
And this is particularly true given that in a lot of places like america, there is a right to a speedy trial.
Especially when it's a criminal trial.
Oftentimes there's not a very wide time window for a lot of evidence to come out or it could just be something that came from long time ago where some of the evidence may not have existed because of contemporary technology.
So this is important because it under any one of those cases it's possible the outcome of the court can change.
And this is key.
Because I don't think that guilt or innocence is merely something that is proven or not proven by a process.
That is to say if you actually committed a crime in reality, just because you were found not guilty of it doesn't mean that you didn't are any less guilty of the crime, if you did in reality do it, because whether or not you committed the crime is is factual in nature.
Not nearly procedural in nature.
So this is important because I think that the criminal justice system should, at its best, try to make sure that it is striving for truth and that it is striving to make sure that it's actually able to punish people who have committed crimes and wrongs.
Keep in mind that if these people, if there's more evidence that somebody committed the crime, maybe they there was like a confession or DNA evidence, and they're now walking away scot-free from that crime, this is someone who deserves to be punished, who isn't being punished.
This is someone who in which case victims have been wronged and victims aren't being compensated.
This is somebody who may be a threat to society at large and society isn't being protected from this person.
There's a lot of reasons why if somebody has is guilty and is a criminal they need to make sure that they're justice is administered to them.
So finally let's talk about why I think that at the end the day this is self regulating and isn't actually going to be abused all that much.
Keep in mind that it costs a whole lot of money to put on trials.
Whether if you're a if you're like a state, you don't want to just like this is why a lot of trials are settled with plea agreements or settlements or things like that.
People don't want to go to trial because going to trial is risky, it's expensive and it's a arduous process.
So I think that when you're giving somebody the option of trying someone again for a crime they were already not found they were found not guilty of it's likely that most rational people will look at this as a waste of money.
So they're probably not just going to do this to harass people as a way to keep people in jail indefinitely or try to indefinitely detain somebody without actually proving charges against them.
I would first and foremost likely say that if these abuses were occurring, they would be found unconstitutional and therefore they would get kicked out.
But I also think that this is just an unlikely thing actually happen in reality.
So what you're left with is double jeopardy only being used when there's actually a substantively likely change in the outcome of the case one way or another.
So for those reasons very proud to propose.