Physical education should not be mandatory, and obviously physical education, the reason why physical education shouldn't be mandatory isn't because exercise is bad, obviously exercise is a good thing.
If anything, people clearly don't do it enough in the status quo, and I think that one of the big culprits for this is because of the way in which you give people a false sense of actually working out, even though it's oftentimes happening grossly ineffectively, and in the worst way possible.
So, first, why do I think PE class is one of the absolute worst ways in which you absolute eh at which you can get a workout?
First, because it's a like a pretty short amount of time, like maybe the class will be like fifty minutes long usually, you take maybe like your ten to fifteen minutes to change into your gym clothes anyway, they do attendance for another five minutes, than you do like you like mess around for another ten minutes probably.
Like at the end of the day, you're not really doing all that much.
Additionally, PE oftentimes isn't all that enjoyable for people, and it's not that enjoyable for people, because different people like to exercise in different ways.
Some people may want to play soccer, some people may want to just run, other people may want to like play basketball, other people may want to play like four square, or play field like like, there's endless ways in which people can like like be active physically.
And PE, as like a mandatory PE class, it necessarily requires it to either a, be structured and like boring and unified, which is going to make a lot of people think that working out is this boring thing that they don't enjoy, or b, it's just going to lead to like this decentralized chaos, where people can just kind of like use the time to talk to friends while like walking around on a track outside, which isn't actually helping anyone.
Additionally, like the final reason, why PE class is like the worst time to get a work out, is because like nobody wants to have this exercise in the middle of the day, like nobody wants to actually try that hard, because like it's is not fun to sit in class gross and sweaty for the rest of the day, after you go to the gym.
That's not enjoyable, nobody wants to like smell or feel sweaty all day, like you just don't feel good when you're in your class you don't want to put in that effort.
But additionally like, when you're in school, you're focusing on other things, are focusing on your grades and your academics and the like, and you're preoccupied, you're not really thinking about like yeah flex, things like that .
So, that's not important, like you should leave it a like like recess is a good enough time to get this break.
And secondarily like, the second reason why PE therefore shouldn't be mandatory is like, all this comes in conjunction with in assumption that PE, which is bad as I just talked about, this is a suitable replacement for actually working out, which is bad.
And the reason for that, is because like if like if you spend like your time in PE class today, like you like did a little bit of physical activity, in your mind, especially after like a long and tiring day at school, when you already feel gross and sweaty, because you worked out, you are probably not going to feel like you need to work out more, you're probably not going to exercise more on your own, or play like a game after school with your friends, like a sport, you might be less likely to do these things, because you feel tired and stressed out, but also because you feel like you're already working out, you're already doing enough work out, and clearly that's not true.
It creates this like illusion of solvency for a problem, and it means that you're less likely to actually more effectively work out.
So for all those reasons, PE should not be mandatory.