We should close the guantanamo bay detention camp because it is immoral, it's bad policy, and it ultimately just makes everything worse, and it makes the problem it's allegedly trying to solve, like terrorism, a lot worse.
So let's start by talking about why it's immoral.
I think this is rather obvious.
Guantanamo bay detention camp was specifically created to be immoral.
It was created to be immoral in that it was a place where it would be outside of regular US jurisdiction, where people could be detained indefinitely, where people didn't have any right to things like habeas corpus where they can demand reason for why they are being detained.
It could be indefinite, there wouldn't be any kind of, trial there wouldn't be any kinds of appeals.
Interrogation methods could be as hostile or torturous as you want them to be, so it could be something like torture, it could be worse.
The guards could humiliate people, and there's no real way to actually ensure that these people are being treated fairly, with dignity and respect, that these people are actually guilty of any kind of crime, that these people actually know where their life is going to be going, and things like that.
So, obviously those are by themselves pretty bad reasons and immoral reason, the reason why that we have protections against all of those things in in any kind of like liberal democracy is because we look at those things as grotesque, as essentially the epitome of injustice.
Arbitrary convictions, arbitrary sentences, arbitrary imprisonment, and all of these things, it's essentially the definition of despotism, and that's very, very bad.
But I also think that this is bad on an international stage in a couple of ways.
First because it a lot of countries get very angry about that, and rightly so.
Obviously cuba's angry because this is essentially land that should belong to cuba, and it's basically like like if cuba was operating a detention facility for communist dissidents in like key west, florida, I imagine the US would probably be pretty annoyed about that, like it's like fair, it's not something that they want happening right on their shorelines.
But additionally, I think that this is also bad a a level for like allies, and people like that oftentimes condemn it because it's seen as very, very rights-violative.
But finally, it's also bad because it's ultimate very powerful as a propaganda tool that shows why people like the united states need be fought in the first place.
And they need to be fought because they engage in immoral tactics, because they do things like torture muslims, throw them into prisons without any kind of hope of without any actual knowing of that being guilty, not really caring who it is or what they actually did, during this to possibly innocent people, and maybe never returning them to home or if they do return to home, possibly after they've been tortured for something that they didn't do.
I can see why people get annoyed about that, and I can see why people can get radicalized about these kinds of things over time.
So, for all those reasons, close guantanamo bay.