We should legalize cannabis for many many reasons.
So, first let's talk about how we're going to legalize it.
This isn't going to be just medical, this is going to be everything - medical and recreational.
In addition to it being fully legalized, anyone who was imprisoned, is currently serving a prison sentence, for any kind of marijuana related offense should immediately be released.
Further, anyone, regardless of if they're currently in prison, or one served, should have their record entirely expunged, and all of their rights restored, if that is their only offense.
Additionally, the state should also pay restitution for all the damages and lives that they took away, because of the the war on drugs they precipitated.
So, why are all these things necessary and just?
So, first let's talk about rights that people have.
I think that at its core, the state doesn't have the right to say that people can't smoke cannabis, I don't or do whatever they want with weed.
So, why do I think this is true?
Keep in mind that, there's a lot of different ways that individuals can choose to live their lives, and if somebody wants to get high, because they enjoy the benefits of it, because they think that it maybe it makes food taste a little bit better, maybe it makes sex a little bit better, maybe it relaxes them a little bit more, their stress if they're like stressed, maybe it can it can do anything, like things like that.
Those are incredibly reasonable decisions that people can make, if they choose to do so.
In the same way that people use alcohol for social lubrications, or you can have a glass of wine after dinner to de-stress or things like that, or smoke a cigarette, these are all things that we accept, because we accept that people have a right to make these choices with their body, but more specifically, they have the choice to make this body things that affect their own internal mental processes, especially when they don't affect other people in any kind of harmful way, because all of the effects of marijuana are limited to the individual self.
So, additionally, I also think it is important, because there's been absolutely no efficacy to the war on drugs whatsoever.
It has accomplished nothing .
It has not led to less people using drugs, in fact it has lead to more people using cannabis.
There's a reason why over fifty percent of people in the united states, which is not exactly known for being progressive on a lot of issues, supports this.
Because, people recognize that it's not working, because people have been using the drugs, and the only thing is that, the drug is getting cheaper, and it's getting stronger and more people are using it, and that's obviously - when you're spending billions of dollars on something - a failure.
But, let's talk about those billions of dollars.
Because the enforcement of these laws, that aren't working, is costing us billions of dollars each and every year, and all of that money could be used on anything, if you could burn those billions of dollars, and it would be more useful than what's happening in the status quo.
But in addition to the fact you're spending billions of dollars, there's a compounding lost, in that you're losing billions of dollars in potential tax revenue, because you can't tax you can't tax people in the marijuana industry who make income out of this, you can't tax the corporations who do these kinds of businesses, you can't tax all the employers and things like that.
So, all of that is additional lost revenue.
But, additionally, it's also bad because if you're worried about things like gateway drugs, or safe use, and things like that, it's only better if you're going to legalize it, and worse if you keep the status quo.
And the reason for that is because, if you're worried about gateway drugs, if you legalize marijuana and you go into a marijuana store, you're not going to find heroin there.
But, if you go to enough marijuana dealers, they'll probably have shrooms, they'll probably have LSD or cocaine, maybe even heroin.
I think that, it's a whole lot more likely that you're going to have these problems.
Additionally, if you're worried about underage use, it's not like a drug dealer, under the table, is going to care about if you're fifty dollars came from someone who's sixteen or twenty five, but obviously, in an institutionalized established store, that has to worry about losing its license to sell, and all of its profits, they're not going to be as willing to give weed away to minors.
So, if your problems are safe access and things like that, then it's clearly just better.
But additionally, you're also not going to have to worry about like the possibilities of there being harmful substances, because you actually know what you're going to get.
So for all those reasons, and honestly many many more, we should legalize marijuana.