We should lower the drinking age.
We should lower it everywhere and we should probably lower it to sixteen, maybe eighteen, definitely below twenty one, and the reason that we should do this is twofold: first and foremost, on a practicality level, as far as sensible regulation of act of drinking, and secondarily as far as rights are concerned.
So let's start by talking about responsible usage.
I think the first and most important thing to note is that the drinking age is the biggest joke in the entire world and as somebody who is now just who is now twenty one but has nevertheless been drinking for many years now, I think that if you ask just about any person in most countries, certainly in america, they tell you that there's a variety of ways in which an underage person can get alcohol and that the drinking age is entirely unenforced.
You can get it from an older friend, you can get it from a lot of parents who don't care because when they were in high school the drinking age was eighteen, you can get it from with a fake ID.
Years a whole, there's like an endless flow of ways in which alcohol is just accessible to people.
So, given that we operate in a world in which alcohol is going to be accessible to minors and that this isn't going to change because of deeply ingrained social structures that make alcohol a part of our culture, the focus shouldn't be can we get people underage to stop drinking, the focus should be how can we make sure that people who are underage drink responsibly.
So I think that the first thing that you want to do is not make people be afraid to call the police or be afraid to call an emergency or like the EMT's if somebody for example drinks too much, or if somebody is possibly getting like sick from drinking too much.
And I think that this is a real problem in a lot of like parties and things like that where because there's a real fear of consequences, there's a real fear of getting in trouble, people don't wanna tell the authorities when things got out of hand.
So you're less likely, first and foremost, to see partying happen in a responsible way and you're less likely see drinking happen in a responsible way secondarily, when you're not allowed to drink legally you're more likely going to do this in less safe places.
The drinking is more likely going to happen in the basement of a fraternity or the basement of like or like or in a high school party, than at a bar or somewhere where it's like public and a lot more able to be regulated.
So I think that that's another thing that's incredibly important.
But I think it additionally when you have a drinking age, it creates more of an an allure or more of a taboo or more of a glorification around drinking that makes us that people are more likely to over do it, so that people are more likely to use it as an act of rebellion and that people are more likely to essentially drink as like a symbol of independence.
A a symbol of having fun in your youth.
And I think this is very clearly something that we see right now and it's a big reason why like for example risks of binge drinking or over using too much alcohol are much more prevalent and places in america than they are in more some european countries where it's much more normalized and there's not the same kind of allure.
But the final thing that I wanna talk about is right.
Because I think that the idea that if your eighteen, or even if you're younger, you're an independent person with autonomy, with agency, with dignity and worth, who can make decisions about their life.
Who can decide whether or not it's good or bad for them to have a shot of alcohol, who can decide whether or not it's good for bad for them to have a glass of wine at night.
I think this is an incredibly basic decision that the average the average teenager is entirely capable of making.
It's not like you're buying a car or something like that, where you're spending tens of thousands of dollars, or in something that's going to affect you for years on end.
We're talking about things that are only going to affect you for one night, that aren't ultimately that big of a deal and are perfectly reasonable decisions for people to make.
We let people buy like sandwiches.
I don't see why alcohol is all that much why it's all that different.
Just because something affects your brain does not mean that you shouldn't be able to like use it as long as you can use it responsibly.
And the assumption that young people cannot do something responsibly is obscenely ageist to the many responsible young people, and to the many people who simply do not fit into these stereotypes.
So for all those reasons we should lower the drinking age.