We should adopt libertarianism because it is both morally and practically the correct thing to do.
So, let's start by talking about what we mean by adopting libertarianism.
So, we're going to get rid of everything that is possible to get rid of as far as government services are concerned.
So what does this mean?
We're going to have only basic safety services, so things like fire and the police.
The police should be smaller than it is now as should the military.
You shouldn't get involved in international conflicts or things like that.
Basic health and safety services.
So, obviously you're gonna have to have some degree of public health to make sure that people can stay healthy and third, laws and basic legal structures to make sure that there's a way to mediate disputes between people through like a public system.
So you wanna have a public body of laws.
All of these basic things are going to be done is minimally as possible and that's how it's going to happen.
Everything else - gone.
All regulations - gone.
Everything gone.
So, let's talk about why this is just the way that we should that that things have to be.
So first I think that this is the only way to ensure that people are able to maximize their individual conceptions about the best way to live their lives.
So here's the problem: pretty much everyone in society disagrees on a lot of things.
Some people agree but by and large most people don't agree on just about everything, and the problem is is that one of the things that it's intrinsic to government interference is that it controls the way in which people can live their lives.
So every time the government passes a regulation, every time the government passes a ban or every time the government gives out a subsidy, it's directing some kind of, it's doing some kind of preference and this is going to be at the expense of some other kind of person.
So I think that this is deeply unjust because you can't just simply say that a majority of people is enough to justify the government depriving someone in some way.
For example, if the majority wants to take away someone's right to have a like gay marriage with somebody or if the or if the majority wants to spend its money on, or if the majority wants to like spend his money on something stupid, like subsidizing like like a mission to mars or whatever.
Some some like random thing like if the government wants to spend like a billion dollars on something.
These are things in which it has an impact on people.
And this is a problem because the counterbalancing solution is that you can just not spend in all these things.
People can have their own money and they can spend it on what they want to do.
And I think this is also going to be much better because this means you're going to minimize rights violations.
I think that when you take away people's property or you prevent them from exercising their autonomy in ways in which they choose, this is akin to theft.
Its theft in that you steal someone's money and you are doing what you want with it because you think that it's going to be better.
Here's the problem: just because you think that this money is going to go towards better use or just because you think a band or a regulation is going to be good for society, doesn't mean that you have a right to do that.
Because how it's best the live a life is ultimately up to the individual.
Some people may think that it's better to be free than to be like health you're safe.
That's why some people may choose to do drugs or eat unhealthy even if there's consequences about that.
People are autonomous rational beings with like free will, they can make their own choices.
That's the best way in which people can be happiest and live the lives that want to.
But finally, I think that this is going to be most efficient and effective.
And the reason for that is because I think that individual people know how to spend our money better than the government.
They know how to spend their money better than the government because if they want something then they can pay for it.
If they don't want something they don't have to pay for it.
, if they value something then they can support it.
And what this does is ultimately it makes sure that things that exist exist because individuals value them.
So for all those reasons we should adopt libertarianism.