We should further exploit unconventional oil for two big reasons: first, because the further exploitation of unconventional oil will lead to a drop in oil prices, which will make just about everything in our lives cheaper, and secondarily, because it'll give us independence from foreign oil, which is certainly beneficial from a like geopolitical perspective, from a strategic perspective in international relations.
So, let's start by talking about why this is going to lead to a drop in the prices of oil, and why that's so important.
So, it's going to lead to a drop in the prices of oil because you're just going to have more of a supply of it.
There's a lot of untapped things, like oil sands, or like shale oil, things like that, that are being extracted, and there's a lot of new opportunities for more advanced ways to extract oil, which is leading to a large surplus of oil, which is what's leading to the price drops in oil.
This is incredibly important, because cheaper oil prices doesn't merely means that, your cars are going to be able to go to places for less money, although that is very important, sense most americans commute to work and get a lot of their day-to-day provisions through their car, so that is very important.
This also affects things like public transportation, and a lot of other sources of transportation.
It also affects things like basic heating and cooking costs, as a lot of places, especially in the northeast, use oil for their heating.
It also affects just about anything that uses plastic, so plastics are used in almost everything in day to day lives.
Plastics use oil, so when the price of oil goes down, the price of anything that uses plastic also goes down.
At the end of the day, these costs pile up a lot, and a decrease in the price of oil means that, it's just much easier for the average person to live the their day to day lives, because the cost of living just goes down, they're able to do things on a lighter budget, which is just very helpful for people in an economy, it's a great way to get an economy going.
But, the second thing that I want to talk about is about foreign oil and about how this is going to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
So, first like principally, if all of the reasons that I talked about in my last point, about how important oil price stability, and especially if they can be lower, how important those are to an economy, because how much they affect the day to day life.
Those are very very important things that, you don't want to have based on the whims of an oil cartel like opec.
Because, if they decide that they want to increase oil prices, or do something to increase the prices of oil, what this means is that, they essentially have control over your economy, because they're able to make things more expensive for every person that is in your economy.
That's an incredible degree of control that another government is going to have over you, which means that they can use that leverage against you, to try to like get more favorable like business proposals in some cases , looking the other way on, possibly, human rights abuses that may be happening, support for more despotic regimes, there's all kinds of ways, in which foreign governments can use this as leverage, in order to get what they want out of governments like the united states.
And, that's incredibly problematic, because it can undermine your values, it can undermine your economic interests, and it undermines the economic livelihoods of the citizens in your country.
So, that's like very very bad also.
There's also the more tenuous idea, about how you don't want this to be like, maybe linked to terrorist organizations or things like that either, which can also be the result of like state funded terrorism, which can also sometimes happen when you are purchasing from certain countries in the middle east.
And this is also sometimes a problem, like a lot of like members of the saudi arabian government have been linked to terrorist like have been linked to funding terrorism and things like this.
These are also things that , you're not going that many problems if you're trying to use unconventional oil, things like oil shales, like in canada or north dakota, or things like that.
So, for all of those reasons, very very proud to propose.