We should not further exploit wind power.
And the reason we shouldn't further exploit wind power is because on the comparative it's not really all that great of a form of energy.
I don't really think that this is necessarily a comparative between whether we should exploit wind power versus oil and gas.
I think that when power is probably better than oil and gas, but at the point at which you're making a decision to exploit wind power, that over something that's cheaper but more environmentally destructive like oil or natural gas, then you probably have the capability to invest in alternative forms of green energy besides wind power.
So things like solar energy or hydroelectric energy.
So I think that if you're going to invest in , obviously you should invest in some kind of a green type comparatively, because it's a lot better than oil and gas for the environment, which is incredibly important right now so we don't all die.
But as far as choosing the best form of of alternative energy or green energy, I think that when power is vastly inferior to alternatives like solar energy for a couple of reasons: first and foremost I think that wind energy comes a lot more possible harms the environment than alternatives like solar energy.
And the first reason for this is that setting up wind farms is bad for the for like habitats of certain animals.
So it can disrupt like bird migration patterns and it can kill birds.
That's like a widely documented thing.
And that's not good because birds are important.
You don't want to disrupt bird migration patterns.
You don't kill birds, they didn't do anything wrong.
You're like putting wind turbines in the middle of where they're flying and that's not right.
But also oftentimes , the, like, places where wind turbines are most effective, where it's windiest, are on the like are by the ocean or by the water, places where ecosystems are oftentimes more fragile.
Like you may have like there, you have a lot more animal life in the area, like in shallow waters, you have animals that like live around there too, you have birds that go there obviously, like sea animals.
And there's all kinds of ways in which having like fast moving wind turbines can be really destructive to natural ecosystems.
Much more so than solar panels, which you can just like plop on a roof or plop on roads or in the middle of the desert where there isn't all that much stuff, and they work pretty well and they don't really get in the way of much.
But in addition to that, I also think that they can be more effective in their use.
Like solar energy can be more much more effective than its use if exploited compared to wind farms, wind power.
And there's a few reasons for this: first and foremost because of the potential for energy.
So the sun is just an infinitely stronger source of energy than the wind.
Like like the wind is fine but the sun has a lot more energy.
Like, the problem with solar energy right now is we're not able to tap a lot of the potential energy, but that's the point.
Potential energy.
The potential is there, because the sun is a lot stronger.
So you're able to get more out of it if you keep exploiting it if you exploit solar power.
It's going to yield more benefits most likely.
But I also think that it's more diverse in the locations that you can put it in.
Like if you have to put wind turbines by a beach because like beaches are more windy or in the ocean, a lot of people won't like that because like it gets in the way of like beaches and or water and things like that.
But it's also if it's in the ocean which is when you're it's farther away from like sources of , it's farther away from where people are living, which means that you're probably gonna lose energy in transmission, in transporting the energy, versus if you just put like solar panels on a roof, that that's like a pretty easy way to get energy.
If you put solar panels on like a park by like a parking lot or a garage, like all kinds of places, they can fit in a lot of places, it's way more efficient and effective.
So for those reasons don't exploit in wind power.