We should ban school uniforms, because they ultimately have a good amount of good for the students, they create good in the fact that it gives students an outlet to express their creativity, their individuality and their preferences, and it creates good in that it allows students to just wear clothing that is more comfortable for them, more fitting for them, like better for them, which I also which I think makes them like better students even in a lot of ways actually.
So let's start by talking about the first thing, the creativity.
Because I think that it's important that when we look at students, especially given that schools aren't purely academic atmosphere, that they have social elements to them as well.
Students want to be able to express themselves, they want to express their individuality, they want to express what they like, what they don't like, things like that.
These are, for what it's worth and worth noting, constitutional protections that a lot of students have in places like america to express their speech in that way.
And I think that there's like a true value to that, when everyone just wearing the same, when everyone just looks the same and is wearing the same things, you don't really feel like you're able to express yourselves, you feel like one of just like a mob, and that's just not something that people like, and that's a harm already.
The next thing I'm going to talk about, though, is about comfort.
So, I think that just oftentimes school uniforms aren't particularly comfortable, they're not the kind of clothes that maybe people are comfortable in different kinds of clothing, and I think that that's actually important to note, because a lot of people just work better or more able to focus when they're wearing things that are comfortable, like I'm much better able to work when I'm wearing pajamas than I'm wearing a suit, which I think is uncomfortable, I'm better able to focus.
There's plenty of people who feel like that, a lot of students, especially when you're younger, are very likely to have focus in this way.
Being comfortable is also better, you don't want to be wearing like like a thick thing if it's like bothering, shorter shorts if it's sweating if it's like hot out or you're sweating and things like that, like these are basic things and but they are nevertheless important things.
So, the next thing is I want to just like weigh all of that against the fact, compare it all to the fact that there is no real positive impact for uniforms.
Like first and foremost, recognize that this is about uniforms, not dress code, so obviously a lot of the more extreme harms that people could talk about on the other side are not actually all that important, it's just like hyperbole.
But the final thing that I want to talk about, is about like a lot of the lies that are associated with other things, like wearing certain types of clothes is not a distraction, there's no real evidence of that, wearing certain kind of clothing doesn't make you like focus any better, or you get things like that.
These are ultimately just unfounded assertions, and it shouldn't be valued very heavily.
So, for all of those reasons, very proud to propose.