We should introduce universal health care because it's both a moral responsibility and smart policy.
So let's start by talking about why the introduction of universal healthcare is a a moral responsibility, and I think that a lot of this comes down to the very basic idea that people suffer, people die, and if we have the ability to help them, it's worthwhile to do so.
There's a whole lot of reasons for this.
It could be because if we were in that desperate situation, we would want that help.
It's because it's just a basic level of empathy that we don't want to see people in pain.
At the end of the day, I think it's just the idea that this is a kind of suffering that we can prevent at, honestly, not that much of a sacrifice, and it's therefore worth the cost.
And I think that it's only about healthcare that we really look at these things in that way.
If you look at the idea that police officers shouldn't help people who are poor because they don't have as much of an ability to fund police departments via taxes and things like that, most people would probably agree that's a kind of ridiculous concept because, of course, like police officers should be helping prevent crime.
Like if a poor person is getting murdered, that's not any worse than if a rich person is getting murdered, and I think that that's not all that different from healthcare.
Possibly like getting shot by a weapon or things like that isn't you're going to be just as dead if you're going to die of cancer, but you can't afford a lot of the treatment because you don't have health insurance and these things aren't covered, and it's not going to make all that much of a difference to you how it happens to you.
And I think that we're talking about human lives and this is very important is on a moral level.
But the next thing that I want to talk about is about why I think that this is smart on a policy level.
And in most places around the world, if it's an emergency situation, hospitals are going to just turn you down based on an inability to pay.
They may discharge you earlier, you may get more limited treatment options, but they're still going to take you in.
If you're like having a severe medical crisis, hospitals are gonna do that and at least in places like america.
And that's a problem because preventative care is less expensive than dealing with the consequences in both like hard terms and softer terms.
In hard terms in that it just often costs less money to do regular checkups, regular screenings, removing things maybe before they become cancerous or the like, making sure that you have access to like a healthier lifestyle.
All of that is ultimately better for someone's life and wallet and the state's wallet than having to deal with incredibly hefty medical bills from specialized care as a result of lack of preventative treatment.
But in addition to that, it's also better in a a broader soense in that obviously it's not great for the economy if a lot of people are getting sicker more often, if people are dying more often, and things like that.
Like when people put off care in earlier parts of their life, it makes things like , in america, medicare for older people or specific support for elderly people, or it burdens employers who whose employees can't work as much.
All of these things add up in cost and since health is something that affects everyone, it has an incredibly massive effect on on an economy, and it ultimately results in money just getting wasted and lives getting destroyed.
And for all those reasons, we should introduce universal healthcare.