We should absolutely ba?
Trans fat usage in any food, and the first reason for this is because it is incredibly unsafe.
There is no known safe amount of a bit to just ingest, and that's the reason why so many places have banned it.
Secondarily, because it's incredibly difficult to consent or know exactly what you're eating when it comes to trans fat and the consequences associated with it.
And third, because like we don't need trans fat, you can just replace it with something else that isn't as bad.
So, let's first start by talking about this like incredibly important safety concerns that are associated with trans fats specifically.
So, let's start by saying that like heart disease is like the number one cause of death in developed countries around the world, in the entire western world.
And in addition to it being the number one cause of death, we spend like billions of dollars probably tens of billions of dollars, maybe even more than that, on combatting things like health disease, and on fighting a lot of the consequences that are associated with heart disease.
But it's not even limited to that, like trans fat can also lead to things like obesity, diabetes, some people even think it could lead to like it could help us like alzheimer's, there's like a whole long list of things in which trans fat could lead these harms.
And it has a very direct way of doing that.
Like research shows that like trans fat like it's like like one of the primary things for like a heart attack or a stroke as like a clogged artery, the like worst of food that you're intaking is like trans fat leads to the clogging of these arteries, there's just like a direct link there.
So it's not like there's a some mystery about whether or not trans fat is healthy or or trans fat is actually all that bad.
Science is in, science says trans fat does cause all of these problems.
So, this is very very bad.
This is especially bad given how much it's abused and the degree to which it's used in foods, and it was prevalent in foods because it was so safe.
But all of these safety concerns are compounded by the fact that people don't understand the risks of eating it.
Keep in mind that like there's a whole lot of fats that you can see on the back of a package.
Like how can you know the difference between like a trans fat or a polyunsaturated fat or a polymonosaturated fat or like unsaturated versus saturated fats, like these things get incredibly complicated and these things have widely differing health consequences on people, and it's very like you should not have a degree to know you like a degree in chemistry or biology to know whether or not the food you're eating is healthy or the food that you're eating is safe, and this is why the regulation of these kinds of things specifically is important.
But furthermore, like like corporations are oftentimes like like like like very evil about these things.
They want you they want to use these cheaper options that are oftentimes less safe, so they try to hide the like bad consequences from from you, so that way you keep eating it.
And this is like very very bad.
And this is further compounded by the fact that when all the corporations that are profit seeking are making the same decision, it's very difficult to opt out of this, you like have to eat trans fat because all the food supply they are using is like all the food that you eat is using it and you may not even know it, and you don't even know how harmful it is for you, so all that's bad.
But, finally, all of these points to a reason why we should ban trans fat, because like we don't need it.
The unique benefit of a trans fat is that like it's semi-solid at room temperature, so it's a lot like hard like butter or soft like an oil or things like that.
But like, whoopty freeking doo, you can just like soften your butter in the oven for like thirty seconds and it's going to be roughly the same consistency or things like that.
Like this is a nonsense excuse.
Or you can just try to come up with like safer alternatives, like like palm oil isn't perfect, like you can use that too instead of like like crisco larder things like a crisco like shortening is the big culprit, things like that.
Like, the only consequence that forcing substitution of trans fat has is it's going to mean that less people are going to die, which is a good thing, and it means that corporations have to spend more money figuring it out.
Like oh no, multi billion dollar corporations have to spend money to like figure out an alternative that isn't going to kill people in their food.
I think this is a pretty reasonable restriction to put on people.
So for all those reasons, we should ban trans fat usage in food.