We should increase internet censorship because it will be beneficial in suppressing dangerous ideologies and essential in suppressing abuse, harassment and bullying.
So let's start by talking about why it's invaluable to suppressing abuse and bullying and harassment.
And I think that these kinds of things are incredibly common on the internet especially because you can post anonymously, and a lot of these things don't get traced back to you.
You see hordes of internet trolls, you see people trying to leak private parts of people's identity, you see people bullying people online.
You see people making threats against people's safety, their family and their own safety online, and these kinds of things are incredibly bad.
And the idea, like, the main idea for why censorship is bad is because you don't want to suppress discourse.
But obviously bullying and harassment, besides just being affront to individual people's dignity, is also going to suppress discourse because, like, if I'm afraid of if I'm afraid of like a bunch of trump trolls, like doing very bad things, threatening me, leaking my identity, I'm not going to express my views on the internet, critiquing them on twitter if I'm worried that it's going to set off like like a whole like a whole big thing.
So I think that in a lot of ways this leads to it can lead to great harms to people, but it also can suppress discourse anyway, if you just suppress discourse in the right way.
And I think that this is also true with respect to possibly getting dangerous ideologies out.
And this is important because the internet's a useful platform in giving a lot of unsavory individuals a community to coalesce around.
You can have places like like four chan, have like a lot of unsavory elements to it.
I hear there's five chan nowadays, which is for the people who I guess weren't who didn't like four chan enough.
They wanted something even less savory.
There's whole lots of internet forums like that, or more commonly I guess is reddit, where people post all kinds of things, all kinds of content, and it's essentially a breeding ground for a lot of things, like alt-right, white supremacy groups, other kinds of things like that which are oftentimes used to target vulnerable people in society in really bad ways.
And I think that censoring the internet is important to actually suppressing these kinds of things.
So the final thing they I would therefore talk about is why I think that censorship is going to happen in the correct way.
And I think that the reason why it would happen in the correct way is because right now we have a great default to other than in the most extreme of extreme cases, just about anything on the internet goes.
And even if something on the internet is bad per se, since it's so difficult to regulate it, since we don't put a lot of resources into some kinds of internet monitoring, for things other than like terrorism and like crimes I guess, but we don't look at so much as regulating it as a modicum of discourse.
That's like a big problem because a whole lot of our discourse as a society happens on the internet nowadays and when we don't regulate it the right way, I think that what it results in a lot of these unsavory elements bubbling up.
And the big thing is that I feel like there's a natural check against this in that if you try to check reasonable people or if you try to check people who have more like reasonable political views, there would be a whole lot of backlash on that.
Most places have legal protection on those kinds of things.
I really don't see this being all that successful unless you're talking about people who are truly abusing their position or using it to hurt other people and silence silence other people.
So for those reasons, increase internet censorship.