Two things in this debate: one, on how blocks bring more power to the region, and two, on how economic dependence between nations is a good thing.
Particularly in an otherwise rather tense region of the world.
A few points of refutation to yaar: before we go to the arguments.
One, yaar starts out with the assumption that this has been tried for years and has failed.
We're not entirely sure where he gets the notion that it's failed.
He goes on to tell you that countries like singapore and malaysia are some of the richest countries in the world.
That's because their GDP has been rising for years that doesn't seem like failure.
Also, these countries haven't had a war between them in years.
Also probably a good thing.
Like, we're not sure what the mark of success yaar is trying to reach is, but it seems that these countries are at least partially doing well.
That may be a marker of success.
Two, yaar says: look, there's no unifying factor.
That's exactly the point.
See yaar never tells you why religion or a type of governance is the form of unifying factor.
What it tells you is in order for countries to care for each other, to cooperate they need a reason.
Something that unifies them.
Crucially, we see no reason why this unifying factor can't be invented.
We think the ASEAN is exactly that unifying factor.
By signing these agreements by signing these accords they are actively creating a unifying factor.
Something that if they win they all win and if they lose they all lose.
This is the way that countries unite together regardless of history.
We think that's a great unifying factor.
Thirdly yaar says there's imbalance in ASEAN.
Some of the countries are rich some of them are poor and that creates tensions.
He's sort of right.
You have to compare to the counter factual.
It's not like outside of ASEAN thailand would've been rich.
They would've been poor and probably would have been substantially poorer.
And it's not like that wouldn't have gone to singapore and malaysia for money and for assistance because they would have needed the assistance.
The only problem is it would have had to re-negotiate that assistance time and time again.
They would've been turned down half the time.
That's the kind of thing that creates uncomfort.
That's the kind of thing that creates tensions between two countries.
So they're right to an extent, the fact that some of the countries are richer and some of the countries are poorer creates tensions, but it's the kind of tensions you get between your older brother and younger brother, not the kind of tensions you get between a poor person and the bank.
And that's what we're trying to keep.
First argument: blocks bring more power.
By uniting in ASEAN they've created more than just an economic agreement.
They've also created a voting block.
This voting block is beneficial to them in more than just ASEAN but also outside of it in places like the UN or in places like WTO.
This is massively beneficial to each and every one of these countries because alone they are very weak in voting power but together they actually have some sort of influence on a global level.
Secondly, economic dependence between nations in a tense region is a very good thing.
If you look at what happens in a lot of the rest of asia there are tensions between countries.
The reason there are tensions between countries is because there's a battle between countries over resources, over land, over geographical areas.
At the point at which you're economically dependent on other nations within the region the likelihood of tensions between those nations drops significantly and that we think is one of the most crucial things that any accords do.
Please continue to support ASEAN.