One crucial thing to keep in mind throughout this debate.
Oppositions are going to tell you that the harms from beauty pageants aren't so greater, that they're not unique to beauty pageants.
Just remember while they're telling you this, that the benefit you get from beauty pageants is nonexistent.
The benefit is the entertainment of men sitting at home, enjoying seeing women paraded in front of them.
That's not a big enough benefit to excuse almost anything, and we think the harms of beauty pageants are massive.
Two such harms: one, the perpetuation of negative north, and two, on the self esteem in impressionable young women.
Let's start talking about perpetuation of negative norms.
Three such norms: one, objectification.
At the point at which women are paraded across the state dressed up differently, performing different acts, always less-clothed, always just for their beauty, judged by a panel of women and men giving them literal number values based on how they look, you're pushing women ever more into the box of an object, of something that's to be appreciated for what it looks like, as opposed to what it who it is or what they say or how they think.
Secondly, you perpetuate rape culture.
Not because women are scantily clad, we think that's fine, but because of the way you objectify women, you perpetuate the notion that they exist for the appreciation and enjoyment of men.
Once you perpetuate that notion, you perpetuate the idea that it is within a man's rights to take what is his, that he can use a woman for his enjoyment, because that's what they're doing up on stage in front of everyone.
Lastly, it perpetuatea gender norms.
It's not just that they're scantily clad, it's not just that they're parading around, but they always get voted on their ideals and supposedly what they perform in their acts and their speeches.
And you'd note that consistently over years, the winners are people who talk about things like happiness and joyfulness and world peace, and perform things like art and happy thinking.
You've never seen a woman go up there and perform a chemist experiment, because that's just not ladylike.
So we say it perpetuates gender norms.
Crucially, we're not saying that women up there didn't choose to be up there.
We're saying that them being up there is harmful to women all over the world, and doing this harm to other people should be discontinued.
Secondly, let's talk about self esteem in impressionable young women.
Two things we say we think this does.
One, it ties self esteem to beauty.
How does it do that?
Using childhood tropes of value.
Things like the word queen thrown around in beauty queen or princess, things like a crown given to the winner and a sash given to everyone who participates.
The ball that these people enter into, all of this terminology, all of these tropes, throw women back to the stories they were told us children and to the equations they create of what is valuable in this world.
Using that, they portray value as external good looks.
A second thing that they do is they set an unachievably high bar to this value, so they tell women you are to be valued based on how you look, they do this literally by value in women based on how their looks that they look in, setting it to tropes of what should be important to women all around the world.
And then they make that goal way too high to achieve, way too difficult.
What does all this do?
It sets in depression, it sets in eating disorder, it sets in unhappiness.
All of this for what?
So that a few people can enjoy watching a few pretty girls scamper around on stage.
We don't think it's worth it.
Please cancel beauty pageants.