Intellectual property rights are the protection of things you create for a limited amount of time.
This includes everything from songs and catch phrases to life-saving medicines.
The government already recognizes that intellectual property rights should not last forever, and it already recognizes that there are caveats to intellectual property rights, such as the fair use act, where if you're using something to critique it or satirize it, that would be allowed.
Ostensibly, intellectual property rights are protecting economic growth because it's hard to keep inventing and creating if your creations can be copied.
However, we think that pretending the creations belong to any one person or corporation is absurd, and the government needs to abolish intellectual property rights to encourage growth and to encourage creation and to allow for life-saving medicines to really save lives, instead of just turn a profit for a company.
So first of all, we think that creations are almost always an amalgamation of work.
We think that taylor swift might have done a lot of work for her songs but when we say that she owns her intellectual property rights over her songs, we are ignoring the fact that hundreds of people worked on the creation and they are not getting fair remuneration for what they have done.
We think that it puts the spotlight on one specific person in an unfair way that ignores the fact that there are usually many more people involved in the process of creation than is being rewarded by the intellectual property right patents.
We think that that's a problem that is not addressed under the current law, and when we abolish intellectual property rights, it will be more it will be more there'll be more fair recognition for the people involved in in creating different products.
We also think that natural resources owned by the state are often used in creating intellectual property, whether we're talking about artists who are inspired by nature or medical research companies that use plants and animals to test new theories or even grants that are given to artists and to corporations in order to to create new products and new and new material.
We think that natural resources belong to the people of the country, and we think that it is only fair that they are also allowed to reap the benefits of it, without having to pay exorbitant prices set by these companies, corporations and artists, in order to view their work or benefit from their products.
We think it's very difficult to say who things really belong to, and allowing a narrow group to reap such huge rewards is a problem and it's wrong.
We also think that it limits new creations by causing fear of inspiration.
Your fear, your corporations, companies, new scientists, new research proposals and artists are always in fear of being sued by other companies or other artists, and are limiting themselves in their new creations and they're limiting what they could be doing for fear of being sued by other companies and being told that they are copying or infringing on intellectual property rights.
We think that this negates the problem of the that that it's absurd to think that there's only more growth from intellectual property rights.
We think that it, in fact, limits it to a great extent by causing fear in in different industries.
And finally, we think that in many industries there's an even bigger problem, one of exploiting one of exploiting these rights to make a profit at the expense of others' lives.
So we have a lot of life-saving medicines and other types of medicines that could alleviate pain, this is particularly in the medical industry, where we could be alleviating pain from people, saving lives, and yet these are medicines that are marked up by hundreds of percents by companies in order for them to turn a quick profit before time runs out on their intellectual property rights and and generics and generic medicines flood the market.
We think that lives are lost in in the pursuit of greed when we have intellectual property rights in the way that they are today.
We think that this property is questionable to begin with, because we think that more people deserve recognition for the work that goes into the products and for the and the creations that are made.
We think that in order to encourage creativity, growth, and to save more lives, we should abolish intellectual property rights.