The utility to a potential life that is a human because it has the potential to become human, because being a human is about being able to continue to grow as a human, not only does the government not make a lot of sense and rely on total logical statements it's also extremely utilitarian.
In a debate that is very emotional.
In a situation that is very emotional.
You can't always ignore what's going on with the woman just because you prefer to look away and weigh utilitarian costs.
There's more to anguish than just well anguish is you know not as bad as death.
I'm gonna discuss a few things on my side of the house and through my discussion of the of why partial birth abortions must be allowed I'm also going to oppose what was said on the government side of the house.
So first let's address the question when is partial birth abortion actually utilized?
Let's put some context into this debate because no woman waits until their second or third trimester to abort a fetus just for fun.
On well, I'll just go through five, six, seven months of morning sickness, which is actually all day long sickness, feeling a baby a fetus kicking around inside of me, feeling sick, having emotional ups and downs, growing this fetus inside of me but now it just changed my mind.
That is rarely the case.
That is almost never the case.
What we are talking about are specific types of cases where the mother's at risk either physically or emotionally, or the fetus is at risk, or the mother simply didn't know she was pregnant until it is too late to have any other kind of abortion.
We think, and that is often in the case of teen pregnancies, we think these are all that these all give us a little bit more contextual understanding of who this woman is standing in front of us.
This is somebody who who has I mean the anguish of having a parasite inside your womb, kicking you from within, that it's not something that can simply be disregarded and said well death is worse.
You know what, death is not what we're talking about here.
Partial birth abortion is the termination of a pack of cells.
It's not a life.
It might be a potential life but it's not a life yet.
Right now, and this brings me to my second point, a fetus is simply a parasite inside the woman's body and the woman is the one with bodily autonomy.
She must have complete autonomy over her body and that means up until the very minute that the parasite is out of her, that the fetus is out of her, she should have complete control over what happens to it.
Until the fetus is delivered they the fetus is totally reliant on the woman's body.
It is a parasite.
It is her decision.
Fetuses literally suck calcium from a woman's bones, they steal nutrients, they abuse the mother's body from within.
It has to be a women's choice to terminate the pregnancy at any stage throughout especially bearing in mind that it's rarely that it's really done outside of very extreme circumstances.
We say this idea that like it's clear the fetus would be able to survive at this point.
We say, first of all, it's not clear at all.
There's a good reason why it's inside the womb for nine months.
It needs those nutrients.
It needs that protective atmosphere in order to to grow and develop and it's a very it's not clear at all that a fetus would survive earlier than in eight through nine month birth but second of all to what end are we talking about here?
Right like if we can grow a fetus outside of the womb completely, does that mean that women will never be allowed to have an abortion, will never be able to decide actually this was a mistake I took I I took protective measures, or I was raped or whatever it is, and they won't be allowed to won't be allowed to terminate at all?
What about men masturbating?
Is that going to be not allowed because you'll be able to facilitate out of the womb out of the womb conception?
We think that these are things that you need to take into account when you're talking about this life.
The fact is that the only way we can determine life is once it is actually independent in and of itself, before that, the woman must have bodily autonomy.