It would be difficult for most people around the world today to imagine living without electricity.
Lights, heat, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers, computers, phones, and that's just personal use.
That isn't even looking at it the large scale, such as manufacturing plants and other industries.
And the number of people with access to electricity is growing and that's great.
Except where does it come from?
And what is the cost we are paying for it today?
And what is the cost that we could be paying for it in the future?
That's what this motion is about.
What we think, ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the government, is that we should incentivize research production and use of wind power through subsidies and tax credits.
We're going to discuss three main aspects: first we wanna discuss the dependency that we have on fossil fuels, and the dangers that lie there in, we're gonna discuss the advantages of wind power and whether or not the government has a duty to invest in effective clean and and and effective in clean energy solutions.
So let's look at the first issue, which is the dependency that we have today on fossil fuels.
We think that there are three main dangers and risks involved here: first, we have the health risks to people.
There is pollution, that is growing amounts of pollution around the world from from from all the use of electricity that we have, and it is damaging our health ladies and gentlemen, that is the first and perhaps the most important, or at least the most selfish thing that we can think about and perhaps will spur us to change.
We also have the health risk involved with the collection of fossil fuels.
We think that when people have to deal with oil rigs for example, that's the kind of an industry that presents a very high risk to its workers.
And then of course with the environmental risks which is again the pollution, but here we have to look more towards the long term and what's happening to our environment, and what kind of world are we leaving to our children, right?
We see that wildlife is is being affected by pollution, we see the ozone layer is thinning, we see that global warming is a problem that we need to look to.
And then of course there's the issue of the dangers of dependency on the fossil fuels and why is it so dangerous that we're just depended on one specific type of fuel?
First of all, because we're dependent on countries that control these resources and we think that it's dangerous when your entire energy consumption relies on their prices and their willingness to sell.
We also think that it's dangerous to be dependent on a finite resource and that's why we need to look to something that is not finite.
That there won't, that won't end up just disappearing whether it's a hundred years from now or five hundred years from now or five thousand years from now, we still need to make sure that we can be that we we are independent and not dependent on a finite resource.
So let's look at wind power and what are the advantages of wind power.
We realize that it's not a magical solution, but it is a large part of a solution.
We think that it greatly complements other types of clean energy, and here's why it's so great: first of all, you can use it on both the small scale and large scale.
That means that you can have wind farms, you can have large tracts of land that are currently not being used for anything or being used for wildlife for for agricultural purposes, but can be shared with with wind farms, and we think that that that's great for for larger solutions, but we also think that we can encourage people to privately invest in wind technology.
We think that we can encourage people, where applicable, to to install for example small scale wind turbines in their houses in order to make it small scale as well and make sure that people are utilizing wind to as much as we can.
We think that offshore wind farms are an option and we think that that solves a lot of problems that we have today in terms of land and space and whether people wanna be living near them.
We think it's a safe technology and that's also an important thing to remember.
So does the government have a duty to invest in these clean technologies?
We think absolutely.
They must protect the health of their citizens, they must look out for the future and they must make sure that we are not dependent on a finite resource that is going to run out.