The government's speech boils down to the fact that they want to change the incentives of political parties and have them appeal to new people, and they want to solve voter apathy.
The problem is they don't really do either of those things.
And the other problem, ladies and gentleman, with this issue of like: " let's change the incentives of political parties " what a silly way to solve this problem.
Right?
They say to themselves: " how can we get rich white guys to be more appealing to young poor black guys? "
Well here's a better question: why don't we, instead of getting the rich white guys to be more appealing, why don't we just get more young poor black guys involved in politics?
Right?
That would be a much more, that would be a much better and more real change that can and should be meeting countries like the united states.
So for example, policy changes that would make it easier for poor people to run for elections.
Right?
By doing things like limiting the amounts of money you can spend on your campaign.
That would be of real change in politics that would allow real people who actually care about these issues to run and make the changes, and have more people involved in politics and actually get interested in politics and get people excited about politics again, as opposed to just saying like: " hey let's get this rich old white guy " like the same political figures to like turn to these new populations.
Which we don't think that they're going to do anyways, for a number of reasons.
Not least of which is the electoral college system in the united states which is going to lead to a backlash about this policy and people being very upset about this policy, but no actual change in in like who politicians are turning to, because they know where their voter base is.
They know where they tend to win, they know where the votes are.
Then we heard this idea of like voter apathy.
Right?
We're going to solve it.
You don't solve voter apathy by by threatening somebody with a fine or jail time.
Right?
That's not how you solve voter apathy.
You're not more likely to get involved in politics for threatened with a fine or jail time, you're just more likely to go stick any ballot in the box.
Right?
You go grab the first one that you see.
Or, even more likely or and even worse, is you're going to and you're gonna see a lot more novelty voting.
Right?
People who write jed bartlet for president on their ballot, are people who stuff fifteen ballots into their, into their envelope, or people who put in blank ballots, or people who put in ballots for the party that they think has the funniest name or the funniest platform.
So in countries that have a multi-party system, for example israel, you're going to get a lot of votes for for novelty parties such as the green party, whose entire platform is based on promoting the legalization of marijuana.
Not that there's anything wrong with that being a party platform or being a policy platform or or being a policy that people believe in, but when you get but when you force people to vote and you get huge swaths of the population who think that it's a big joke, or who are angry at the government for forcing them to go and vote, you're gonna get a lot of votes like that which doesn't necessarily reflect the true will of the people either.
So I think that you get disproportionate power for small for small interest groups rather than a better representative government.
More than that, ladies and gentlemen, we think that you violate the freedom of speech by compelling people to speak.
We think that you have a right to vote but not a duty to vote and we think that that's a big difference.
Right?
You can choose to vote you can choose not to vote.
And the fact is, ladies and gentleman, that the non vote should be enough of a vote for us.
It gives us a lot of information.
It gives the governing parties a lot of information.
It means anybody who truly cares about changing the country that they live in, who truly cares about politics will look to those people and say: " why aren't they voting? "
Right?
When you had barack obama, for example, who when he ran for president, you did get a lot of people who in the past it and vote, and he appealed to them.
He cared about them and he looked at the people who weren't voting and said I want to appeal to them.
We think that that's a a good idea.
We think that the information that you get from having a non vote from every election being told this is the number of people who just didn't care enough to go out to the to the polls.
We think that that information is crucial and valuable to the government.
Its people telling them that they want to change the political system.
For example, change it away from the electoral college, where people feel that the votes are being wasted.
We think that it tells people that they're disillusioned with politics and that they need to change their ways.
We think that there are better ways to solve the problem of apathy rather than this.
Thank you.