We should end cheerleading.
So we think that the US predominantly, but also other countries where cheerleading has taken hold, should pass legislation to end public support for it, and that we shouldn't have things like cheerleaders at pro sports games or parades and other events.
We would prefer a world where cheerleading was done away with, even if it's not explicitly banned.
A couple of arguments for our side.
The first is that we think cheerleading is demeaning to women.
At its root, cheerleading equates women's appearance with men's ability.
So, because cheerleading is usually associated in the US, where almost all cheerleaders are located, with sports like football, ultimately you are equating the football players with the cheerleaders.
But how are these two things different?
The football players are exhibiting athletic prowess and incredible skill and talent, in a way where people respect them because of the hard work that they put in and their incredible skill.
The cheerleaders certainly do work hard and I don't want to say that they're not, and that they don't have skill because clearly they do, and their routines are quite complex, but they're being valued more for their appearance and attractiveness, more than anything else.
What's more, they're being used as a display to encourage the football players and to encourage fans to be more supportive of their team, rather than being celebrated in their own right.
And while it's true that there are now standalone cheerleading competitions today, people still generally associate cheerleading with this traditional role that they've had in encouraging football players and other athletes to play better, and encouraging people to root better for their male compatriots.
So ultimately, because cheerleading reduces women to the status of props for men's athletics, we think that this is really demeaning.
That it encourages people to ignore these women's abilities or skills or talents, and only look to their appearance and how well they encourage the fans to root for their male counterparts.
Ultimately, this seems very demeaning to the women who participate in this.
And we think that the alternative world in which these women are playing sports on their own, or participating in other activities where they can be celebrated and rewarded for their hard work, would be a better one compared to the world in which they are cheerleaders.
I know the other side will say that people like opt into being cheerleaders and want to do this, but that doesn't mean that it's a good thing.
People make bad decisions all the time, and even if people want to do something, that doesn't mean that it's something that's good for them.
Our second argument is that we think this is exploitative of little girls.
Ultimately, there's nothing wrong with sexualizing grown women who are sexual beings and or have the ability to consent into this and understand it.
But because cheerleading is something that's so sexualized, we think it's problematic that it's so prominent for young women or young girls to participate in.
Many girls begin cheerleading even before middle school, when they're pre-pubescent, yet the outfits that they wear and the routines that they perform are still sexualized.
And this only continues into high school or middle school, when the girls are sexualized even further, especially by media that often portrays them as the natural people for athletes to date or have sex with.
So we think that ultimately, it's somewhat creepy and certainly exploitive to encourage little girls to go into an activity that sexualizes them, and treats them more as objects for the enjoyment of these athletes than it does as individuals.
Moreover, we don't think that these girls can positively opt into becoming cheerleaders, because they're too young to understand the implications of the sexual implications of the activity that they're participating in.
So ultimately, because this is demeaning to women, and because it sexualizes young girls, we think that we should end cheerleading.
Thank you.