We should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
We're going to explain to you why the united states should continue to operate gitmo and should continue the programs that are under way there, including the CIA torture program.
Three arguments: the first is that the alternative to closing guantanamo bay is not better than the status quo.
Tim tries to tell you in his speech that if we close guantanamo bay, the CIA will stop torturing people, the US navy will stop interring people without trial, and ultimately these people will either be set free or given fair and free trials.
I just don't think that this is a realistic alternative world to the one in which we live.
There is no incentive for the US government to end the torture program.
Yes, there has been backlash against it, but it was relatively minor and ultimately has blown over, especially since the trump election.
And on top of that, presumably the US government gained something from the torture program, whether that be making people afraid to interfere with US business or perhaps obtaining some information that they otherwise don't have.
If they didn't gain anything from it, then I think it's unlikely the CIA would spend money on this program.
So with that in mind, I think it's quite likely that they'll just continue the program, and what would it look like without guantanamo bay?
The US operates many torture facilities around the world.
Perhaps you remember the scandal at abu gharib a few years ago where US, I believe it was the navy, were mistreating prisoners and torturing them to get information.
If you close guantanamo bay, all that happens is they do the torture in saudi arabia or some other country.
At the end of the day, it doesn't really matter where it happens.
But at least with guantanamo, this is in the news and the american people are aware of it.
There's some degree of oversight.
If this all takes place at some black site in poland, then the potential for abuse is much greater, and ultimately we tell you that the situation could grow even worse than it is right now.
Torture, unfortunately, seems to be a fact of life for people who are held in these navy and CIA prisons, and it seems that that's unlikely to go away.
Our second argument is that it is politically infeasible to close guantanamo bay.
Recognize that this action doesn't take place in a vacuum.
If you close gitmo, either you have to move these people to black sites, basically disappear them, which seems quite likely to cause backlash in the liberal media and ultimately create more resentment of the government and of the CIA among the kind of liberal, big city east coast types who care about these things.
Ultimately, we tell you that there's no reason for any administration to take on that backlash when people seem perfectly willing to ignore guantanamo for the most part.
We think ultimately this would just burn good political will for the administration.
Or alternatively you could try to move these people to america, like barack obama did.
But every single governor refused to have these people come to their state because they don't want to bring nine eleven hijackers into their community.
So at the end of the day, we think that it's likely that you would get similar backlash and have the same problems if you try to bring them to america.
So we just don't think that there's any good way to do this without burning a lot of political will on an issue that most americans, to be frank, don't care about.
Our third and final argument is that these concessions to cuba would weaken our soft power.
Cuba has wanted america to leave the guantanamo bay base since nineteen fifty nine, or whenever the castros came to power.
We tell you that ultimately if you make concessions to cuba, you weaken american soft power.
The ability of a very strong country to say, " we will do whatever we want in your territory and you can't stop us ", is one way that nations like the US dissuade anyone from disagreeing with their hegemony.
We see the same thing in germany or in japan: that the US bases there provide a way for the US to leverage their position as a global hegemon.
Even if the navy remains in guantanamo bay, removing the prison camp is a major concession to the cubans, who have called it a human rights abuse, and ultimately undermines our negotiating position in the region and perhaps globally.
So for all these reasons, we should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
Thank you.