We should ban anonymous posts.
So what we're arguing is that websites like reddit or four chan should not allow people to post anonymously, they should require them to log in with their real name.
We would be fine with using something like facebook as a way to authenticate people's identity or even having some sort of government issued identity which people will be required to use when they post online.
Three arguments for our side: the first is about tracking crime.
Imagine how much more difficult it would be to distribute illegal materials if everything you posted online were directly linked to your name.
If I had to go and post james l.
Next every pirated movie I've ever watched, then it's probably much less likely that I'd be willing to engage in that behavior.
And pirated movies are honestly the least of our concerns on the internet.
When there are people out there distributing indecent photos of minors or drug paraphernalia or lots of other things that they couldn't distribute in person, we think that ultimately it's very difficult to track and limit if their distribution is anonymous.
If everyone had to use their real name and if there were no way to get around this, then ultimately we think it would be easier for law enforcement to go after these people.
I think that in particular, for indecent material concerning children, this is just so outrageous that it's been allowed to go on in the name of allowing anonymity.
It's essential that government step in to do something in order to protect children who are being harmed and in order to go after the people who are creating and distributing this heinous material.
We think that that, in and of itself, is enough to ban these anonymous posts.
Our second argument is about self censorship.
You may have asked yourself, if you ever read the comments on youtube, why are people so much more horrible on the internet than they are in person?
People who would never dream of using racial slurs or sexist language on the metro are perfectly happy using it on youtube or on other anonymous posting services.
We think that people are encouraged to self censor when they use their own name.
Why?
Your reputation and your standing in the community is tied to your language, is tied to do with you treat other people.
But if the community, so called community, is made up of anonymous posters, then you have nothing to lose by being an absolutely atrocious human being.
You can say anything you want and do anything you want and get away with it, and no one will think that you're being inappropriate, and no one will judge you for that behavior.
So ultimately if people's real name were tied to their post, we think it's much more likely that they would behave civilly.
And we see that this happens in person.
People are generally much more affable and pleasant in person than they are online.
This could be because of the reputation or also because when other posters have a photo of themselves have their real name you're more likely to remember that there are people too and that they deserve your respect.
Just like when you interact with another human being, you aren't just polite to them because you don't want to look like a jerk, but also because you care about them as another human being.
We think that tying into this empathy and also to this shame would ultimately reduce the amount of hate speech, reduce the amount of racism, reduce the amount of awfulness on the internet in general, that this would make the internet a more accessible place for people of different backgrounds and that ultimately this would also be enough to justify requiring people to post with their name rather than anonymously.
Our final argument might seem a bit perverse at first, but it's about preventing doxing doxing is when an otherwise anonymous community publishes the name and real world information about an individual in that community.
Presumably the reason there's a threat here, is because there's an imbalance now.
One person is a known quantity the other people remain anonymous.
If everyone were a known quantity then there wouldn't be any benefit to doxing people.
We think that this would prevent hate groups from using this as a tool to intimidate people and prevent them from speaking on line, which is something that we see groups like anonymous do right now.
For all of these reasons we believe therefore that you should ban anonymous posts.
Thank you.