We should introduce compulsory voting.
So what we're going to argue for you this evening is that countries like the united states or canada which do not have compulsory voting right now, should adopt a system similar to what they have in australia, whereby people have to go to the polls on election day and turn in a ballot.
People are free to turn in a blank ballot, or write gandolf or darth vader on their ballot if they want to, but everyone has to go to the polls and vote on election day.
So three reasons why we think this policy should be implemented in countries that don't have it yet.
First we think this changes the incentives of political parties in a very positive way.
Right now, there's a huge incentive for political parties to appeal to the populations that actually go out and vote.
After all it doesn't matter if you command a huge lead with people who don't go to the polls on election day.
What does this look like?
It means that older people and wealthier people who are more likely to be able to go to the polls or to choose to go vote, are much more likely to have political parties cater to them.
So the interests of wealthy elderly people, particularly white people in countries like the US and canada, are disproportionately influential in our democracy.
We think that if you introduced compulsory voting, parties would now have more of an incentive to appeal to other groups in society as well.
In other words, suddenly it matters what young black people in chicago think because they're out at the polls in as great a numbers as old white people.
At the end of the day, we think that this is important because it means that parties want to appeal to more people so they will implement policies that actually help a broader portion of society than what we see right now when they try to appeal only to a narrow section of society who actually go out to vote.
Our second argument is that this would lead to better participatory democracy.
So what we mean by this is that right now there is a tremendous amount of apathy in many western countries.
In the united states' midterm elections, ones between presidential elections that is to say, often have voter turnout well below fifty percent.
In britain, voter turnout is rarely over sixty.
On the other hand in brazil or australia, obviously voter turnout is close to one hundred percent.
What this means is that there is a greater culture in those countries of participating in elections.
Many people in america or similar countries, never vote in their lives.
They don't feel any connection to their country's democracy.
This means that they're less likely to try to stay informed about the issues, less likely to know who their politicians and leaders are, and generally less likely to participate in civic society.
We think that for democracy to be successful, people must have an incentive to participate and that compulsory voting is the best possible incentive.
And our third argument is that we would have a more representative government.
Right now we see that governments as I mentioned earlier reflect the interests of a relatively narrow scope of people.
But now I want to talk about what it actually looks like when you have a government that represents everyone.
I think it is much more likely that governments would focus on social policy, on helping low income people, on helping immigrant families and the like, if we had compulsory voting.
This is true because right now the government actually doesn't represent the american, canadian, british, whatever country you choose, doesn't represent their people.
It represents the voting population.
But when you make it so that everyone is the voting population, suddenly the state must actually care about what is good for everyone.
At that point we think it's much more likely that you get policies which are tailored to the general interest than those which are tailored to certain special interest groups which vote disproportionately.
So for these reasons, we should implement compulsory voting in countries that do not already do so.
Thank you.