We should not disband nato.
We think that it's important to keep in mind that the comparative in this round is a world with a strong alliance of democratic states who use their military and influence to promote democracy around the world, versus a world in which all of these countries act independently without common policy.
We don't think that nations like the united states or britain would just stop interacting with the rest of the world using their militaries because there were no nato.
We think that they would do it in a worse way.
So two big arguments.
The first is why we think nato promotes cooperation, and ultimately this is a good thing.
Recognize that many of nato's member states like germany and britain used to be enemies but now are allies.
After world war two the united states, probably the best thing we've ever done as a country, forged this alliance out of the countries that used to plunge the world into war time and time again.
The story of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries is constant conflict in europe, which is largely ended because under american leadership nato has created this alliance that forces all western european countries to work together.
This has prevented massive amounts of conflict we think since world war two.
But on top of that we think nato is good because it aligns american interest with those of other countries.
So recognize that america's natural position in the world is perhaps isolationist.
America is far away from most other countries, and in many cases our interests are more commercial rather than interventionist around the world.
But when the united states was uninvolved in the rest of the world other countries were much more powerful relative to their neighbors.
We think that countries like russia and china would be much more powerful on the international sphere without american involvement.
We think that it's preferable to have the united states as a very powerful democratic country, take an active role in the world.
As an american I'm going to be the first to admit that US action in countries like vietnam and iraq has been regrettable, but we think that checking russia and russian and chinese aggression around the world is still a good thing, and that there's no other country that would be able to do this the way the US can, and that nato is uniquely what draws the US into having an interest in protecting other countries democracies, and spreading democracy around the world.
We also think that the US is less likely to act unilaterally because of nato.
Now the other team might say look you invaded iraq using your coalition of the willing not nato, but if you look at your members it's effectively the same group of countries.
The comparative in this debate isn't that america will completely stop fighting other countries, it's that we would do it without allies.
If you think that the US abuses its power and now, it seems that it would be much worse if the US weren't beholden to any group of allies like they are through nato.
But aside from that we think that even non-members can benefit from nato action.
The other team tells you that nato's interventions have largely been a failure, but if you look at yugoslavia in the nineteen nineties, we think that the nato intervention ended the civil war much more quickly than any local power could have because the US and britain were more powerful than the countries actually fighting, but on top of that we think that even though the accounts of genocide in the nineties were overblown, now that we have the information we do now, it's critical that when there were charges of genocide, the US and britain and other countries went in to try to prevent that.
We think that ultimately the world is a better place.
If you have a group of countries that are willing to go to war to prevent a genocide.
So therefore we think that nato interventions can actually be a good thing and protect people.
Now the other team might say you haven't gone into stoplights of other genocides, but look the comparative is that they did intervene in yugoslavia where as no one else might have without nato.
Aside from that we think that ultimately the big impact of all of these points is that nato creates peace.
There's an old saying if you want peace prepare for war.
By having the world's democracies work together to create strong militaries and a strong alliance network that makes any of them even the smaller countries like netherlands or norway too powerful to attack, we think that ultimately there's less likely to be conflict.
So the second big point we think in this debate is that nato checks undemocratic nations.
Yes nato threatens putin's russia, but we think this is a good thing.
If you think that right now putin despite the existence of an alliance of powerful democratic nations has still attacked georgia, has still attacked ukraine.
We think that it's likely that he would have also attacked the baltics if it weren't for nato.
We think that if anything the problem with nato is that it hasn't expanded east quickly enough.
And you may say the US and britain do bad things, but at the end of the day, we still think that it's better to live in countries influenced by the US and britain than countries influenced by putin's russia in terms of quality of life and freedom for the people who live there.
And aside from that we think that nato is the main way in which democratic countries cooperate.
So if you want a powerful check on undemocratic nations around the world like russia, like certain middle eastern dictatorships, like china, nato is the only game in town.
Nato is the only group of democratic countries that have shown that they are willing to intervene to protect democracy around the world, and while it may be unfortunate that lots of people have been harmed by their interventions, we still think that a world where democracy is powerfully protected is better than a world where they block this champion.
So for these reasons we should not disband nato.