We should not ban anonymous posting online.
Three arguments for our side: the first is about freedom of speech.
We think that ultimately, people in almost every country in the world are guaranteed the ability to speak their mind.
When you require someone to attach their name and face, such as by linking every comment that people make to a facebook profile or something similar to online comments, you abridge that freedom of speech.
We see that this is already acknowledged by courts around the world to the point that doxing - the practice of releasing someone's personal information without their permission - is a crime or has been banned in many jurisdictions.
The reason why this limits people's freedom of speech so much is because by attaching your identity to something you open yourself up to attack.
This means that people will be afraid to speak their mind, more on this in just a minute, and that people won't be able to access the kinds of open fora that characterized the internet right now.
We think that one of the best things about the internet now is anonymous posting, because it lets people have conversations that otherwise wouldn't exist.
So you silence a tremendous amount of speech by banning this anonymous posting.
And the other side might tell you that it isn't speech that we want.
That it's online bullying or people behaving anti-socially, but I don't think they can make that claim categorically that this never has value, for reasons I'll explain now.
Our second argument is about the benefits of anonymous posting to closeted or otherwise marginalized communities.
Imagine that you are gay in iran.
How are you supposed to talk about your experiences with like minded individuals without anonymous posting?
We tell you that ultimately people whose ideas are not accepted by wider society or whose identities are not accepted but wider society, benefit enormously from online posting.
I think one reason why there are so many more people with diverse identities out in the open today than there were thirty years ago, is that people can find community online in a way that they can't in person.
People don't feel comfortable talking about things like sexuality or gender identity if they live in a conservative country or a conservative area of a country, so they don't have a community to access.
Anonymous posting lets people safely talk about identities that are marginalized or discriminated against.
It lets people who otherwise lack community, create community.
And this eventually spills over into the real world.
When people realize that they are not alone, that other people have the same experiences as them, that what they are feeling is okay and not something that should be, they should be ashamed of, than they are much more likely to be able to come forward and talk about those ideas in public.
We think that anonymous posting and anonymous communities ultimately beget real world communities which then can advocate for social change and acceptance.
Now the other team is going to say it's not just gay kids using the internet.
It's also people like the far right or political activists who want harmful things or isis or groups like that.
But those people already existed anyway just like gay people already existed.
So you don't get rid of isis, you don't get rid of neo-nazis by banning anonymous posting.
And for reasons I'll explain in just a minute, you don't even limit their activity by banning this kind of posting.
So we think that ultimately the benefits that accrue to marginalized groups greatly outweigh the harms caused by isis posting on twitter occasionally.
Our final argument is that these laws would be unenforceable if they were introduced.
There is no way that any one country can implement an end to anonymous posting.
Even china, with their attempts to cut off their internet from the rest of the world, had been unable to stop people from using IPN's or other ways of circumventing the great firewall of china as they call it.
The nature of the internet is that no one country can regulate it.
So ultimately as long as people can set up an anonymous server in tuvalu or some other tiny country, you won't be able to enforce this laws.
Which makes your government look weak and foolish and ultimately reduces the respect that people have for it.
We tell you that the kinds of extremist you might want to stop from talking online are still able to do so therefore, so there's no successful effect of this policy.
For all these reasons we should not ban anonymous posting.
Thank you.