We should not abolish three-strikes laws.
So we're going to say that in places like california that currently use three strikes laws, this policy should continue to be implemented in the future.
Our first point, no surprises here, is about deterrence.
So, we would tell you that when people choose to commit a crime, maybe they're not acting perfectly rationally, but they still have some decision-making process about whether or not it seems like a good idea to go out and commit this crime.
Presumably, if every crime carried no penalty other than a five hundred dollar fine and a little bit of community service, people would be much more likely to commit crimes.
On the other hand, if every crime had the death penalty, I imagine many fewer people will be willing to commit a crime.
We have to find a balancing act, though, between a cruel and unusual punishment and one that deters people from committing crimes.
The reason why I think that three-strikes policies are a happy middle ground is that people really know what they're getting into.
People can understand that if you commit two crimes, then those are your first two strikes, and you're being punished according to the crime you committed.
And if you commit a third crime, then you're being punished for having become a sort of career criminal and a perpetual menace to your community.
More on that in just a moment.
But I think it's clear that people can think about this and internalize that risk of relying on crime as a way of life and that this discourages them from relying on crime in the long term as a way to support themselves.
Therefore, because it likely does deter people, we think that the policy should continue.
And will tells you about some study at one of the UCs that claims that actually decreased alcohol consumption may have played a larger role in declining crime rates.
Crime rates are down all across the united states in almost every appreciable way and there are many reasons for that, but it seems like you wouldn't be able to see the crimes that aren't being committed because people don't want to go to jail because of the three-strikes laws.
So it seems difficult to say that this hasn't had any effect when, in fact, crime has gone down since it was introduced.
Our second argument is about the good of the community.
The criminal justice system isn't really about individuals, at least in the united states.
Maybe it is more so in other countries.
But here if you commit a crime, then the state is the one who prosecutes you.
So it's the people versus will smith or whoever you want to pick, not the person who was harmed, drew latimer versus will smith.
So, at that point, we tell you that we see that the state should be concerned about what's good for everyone, not what's concerned for one particular victim or one particular person.
Communities are deeply harmed by having a strong criminal element.
If young men, in particular, in your community think that they can do better for themselves by turning to crime than by participating in society in a more social way, then ultimately that's going to harm the ability of people in your community to live normal, happy lives.
So we think this is a huge harm and that the three-strikes law goes a long way to helping these communities by ensuring that people don't turn to a life of crime.
And my last argument is about organized crime and why we think this is especially effective in that case.
A lot of organized crime relies on the idea that you have a group of people who will commit crimes for your organization, and then they go to jail, and then they get back out and go right back to working for you.
It's a lot harder to run a business like that if your people are going away for twenty-five years.
Basically, you would have to invest capital into training lots of new little criminals every year, because your more experienced people getting locked up for twenty-five years.
We don't think it would be sustainable to run a major crime ring by doing this.
And the other side might say, " oh, well there's still organized crime in california. "
But we've seen that the era of the crips and the bloods destroying los angeles is more or less over and that organized crime is on the decline, except for international organized crime, which is another issue.
So we think that actually this policy, at the very least, has coincided with a decline in street gangs and that this may be a major factor therein.
For all these reasons, we should not abolish three-strikes laws.
Thank you.