We should ban school uniforms.
So, by ban school uniforms what we're really talking about, is we think that in places like britain, where right now school children are required to all dress in the same outfit everyday, we should do away with that practice and let children dress themselves within reason.
We're okay with things like dress codes, you know, requiring skirts to come to the knee, or requiring that everyone tuck their shirt in, things like that, but we don't think that a school should tell children exactly how to dress.
So, two arguments: first we're going to explain to you why we think this policy is bad for children, and second we're going to talk about potential benefits of uniforms, but why we don't think they're the most important thing.
So why are uniforms bad for children?
First of all we think that they stifle creativity.
Recognize that young people can experiment with their identity and how they want to act in a relatively low cost way while they're in secondary school.
So if they want to try dressing up like people from different subcultures or experimenting with different looks, they can do that and it won't affect their ability to get a job later in life.
We think that everyone is pretty sympathetic to the idea that teenagers in particular don't really know what kind of people they want to be yet and want to try out lots of different ways of acting.
So when you have uniforms you stifle the ability for children to experiment in this low cost setting what type of person they want to be.
We think that this will lead to them having to figure these things out later in life, determine if they want to be part of a certain subculture or how they want to dress, and ultimately that they will have higher cost then in terms of their ability to gain employment.
But we also think that young people don't learn how to dress if you give them a uniform.
There's nothing more frustrating than being told to show up to an event business casual if you don't know what that means.
We think that when young people have to dress themselves for school, they learn skills like this, how to dress professionally, how to dress for certain events, but they don't learn that as well if they have to wear uniforms because they dress the same every day and to have to put any thought into it.
So we think that uniforms, by removing the requirement to think about clothes, actually create an unrealistic expectation for young people about what the world is like because how you dress absolutely does matter socially and professionally and young people aren't learning to think about it if they wear school uniforms.
Next, although this next issue might sound marginal we think the harms to the people it affects are very great.
Recognize that school uniforms really enforce the gender binary, so if you have people who don't identify with the sex that they were assigned at birth, we think it's going to be very difficult for those people to have to wear school uniforms.
If you give people some freedom about how to dress they can choose to subvert the sex they were signed at birth and experiment with their gender identity and things like that, but you can't do that if you have to wear a school uniform.
If your school tells you that boys have to wear trousers and girls have to wear skirts and you're transgender, you have no way to get around this policy.
And we think that that's likely to be very stifling for these people, and while there may be relatively few transgender people, we think that the harms of gender dysphoria are so great and the costs of letting children dress themselves are so little, that clearly we should defer to this concern.
And lastly in terms of a financial burden, I'm sure that the other team is going to get up here and say that schools can pay for the uniforms of children who can't afford them, but there's no such thing as a free lunch.
Somebody is ultimately paying for these school uniforms.
And recognize that young people can't wear these uniforms outside of school, they're normally not really fit for playing in, or working, and things like that.
So this basically requires low income students have extra sets of clothes.
And even if their parents don't have to pay for them directly, which they probably do in some areas, but even if they don't, this is just another big cost for the state to take on in providing education and we'd rather spend that money on other things instead.
So our second part of the speech is how we think that the alleged benefits are outweighed.
Even if uniforms offer some discipline in classrooms, we don't think that this is unique to schools with uniforms.
There are plenty of american or german schools where people don't wear uniforms and still have good classroom discipline.
So we think that it's more important to instill discipline than to teach people that they have to wear a uniform.
Next, even if uniforms remove some bullying they don't remove it all.
We think that children are always going to be unkind to one another and requiring them to wear uniforms won't uniquely stop this or get rid of the problem.
And even if uniforms create some sense of unity within a school, we think that there are still going to be lots of ways young people are excluded.
We think that you're likely to see some people are popular and others aren't, we think you're likely see racism and bias and things like that remain, so ultimately you're not going to create this strong sense of unity through using uniforms.
So while certainly there are some benefits: you probably do get a little more discipline, you probably do limit some bullying, we think that the harms that we expressed earlier are more important than these concerns, so we should ban school uniforms.