We should disband nato.
So, the north atlantic treaty organization is a military alliance between a group of global north countries like the US, britain,france, canada, and other countries in europe.
We want to disband it for three reasons.
The first, is that it has served its purpose.
Nato was created to protect europe from the soviet union.
Which obviously isn't around today and doesn't pose a risk anymore.
We see that nato was probably very necessary at a time when you had thousands of soviet tanks in east germany, germany was a divided country, there was a lot of concern about war, the americans and the russians both wanted to put nuclear weapons in europe and that needed be moderated in some way.
At that time, there was an urgent need for the countries of the global north, these first world countries, to work together to protect each other from communism, and to structure their alliance in such a way that all of the countries could participate in it on some sort of equal footing.
But at the point where nato was created in reaction to the soviet threat and the soviet union has been gone since before I was born, it really seems like the alliance has run its course.
Our second point is that we think nato was unnecessarily threatening to russia.
So remember that nato was founded explicitly to be anti soviet, and that russia has taken on most of the responsibilities and duties of the soviet union in the international sphere.
So what you have now is a country that's much weaker than the soviet union, russia has nothing approaching that kind of military power or influence, but which faces the exact same military alliance.
It's almost as though you have an eight hundred pound gorilla in the form of nato, and instead of having another gorilla in the form of the warsaw pact and the soviet union, you just have a guy going up against it.
We think that the russians with good reason feel threatened by the presence of american nuclear weapons only a couple hundred miles from their border, by the presence of thousands and thousands of american troops in germany, ultimately it's very clear that nato members use russaphobic language as a unifying factor and they drill and practice for attacks against russia and defending against russian attacks and otherwise basically the alliance puts russian leaders in a position where one, they can sell the threat of nato invasion or the threat of nato attacks, to maintain their own power and undermine democracy in their country.
And two, where they have very legitimate concerns about the kind of weapons that are being deployed around their borders.
It's probably true that most of the fears that people like vladimir putin claim to have are just a way to get support from the public, but there is some legitimate concern about having an enemy alliance on your doorstep with nuclear weapons that exist solely to contain your country's interests.
This threat to russia's only bad for world peace and we think that getting rid of nato would do a lot to restore goodwill between russia and europe.
Our third argument is that nato was an unfair alliance.
This is for a couple reasons.
On a financial level, almost no countries in nato actually pay as much as they're supposed to into the common defense.
We see that the united states picks up the vast majority of the tab while most european countries basically have no military.
They're free riding on the back of this alliance and getting away with not defending themselves making the american taxpayer pay for it.
We think it's unfair that americans have to pay to defend swedes and other people who aren't doing their fair share.
But on top of that, we think nato is also unfair in the other direction, because the US has such outsized control on it.
Although nato is nominally an alliance of equals, in practice the US dictates what nato is going to do, drags nato members into conflicts and proxy wars, and ultimately is able to use it I to almost keep the europeans as satellite states, sort of analogous to the old warsaw pact in eastern europe.
And it seems true that the countries with the most independence are those with the largest militaries like britain or france, while smaller countries with weaker militaries have less independence.
So we think that at the end of the day, nato was an unfair alliance to both the wealthier members who pay more than their fair share, and to the smaller members who were suffer the dictates of the united states.
So for these reasons, because it's served its purpose, because it undermines peace with russia, and because it's an unfair alliance, we should disband nato.
Thank you.