We should abolish the united nations security council veto power.
So right now five countries, who were very powerful at the end of world war two, the US, russia, china, britain and france, are able to veto any business of the security council.
The rotating members of the council, countries like india and germany, do not have the ability to use this veto.
So we're going to argue that the security council would be better off without veto power.
Three arguments: first, we think that the members who have been granted this power are outdated.
In particular, britain and france are not the world powers that they were in nineteen forty five.
Britain no longer controls india, france no longer has a massive empire in africa and southeast asia.
At this point, britain and france are just two medium sized countries that aren't actually that important internationally.
Except as EU members.
We think that there are many other more deserving countries, notably india and japan, who are not represented on the security council in this way.
So right now two countries that really don't matter to international relations, because they're part of nato so they're under the US umbrella, have a disproportionate influence on international law and decision making.
We think that this is unjust, that those countries don't have the power to deserve this or the population to deserve this, so they ought not be given this power.
So the other team might try to tell you that, oh we should just transfer the power to india or japan.
But that just passes the ball down the road.
Because what happens when in the future of those countries are no longer as significant?
What if russia suddenly, for instance, stops being a superpower?
We think that ultimately it's always going to be very difficult to change the security council vetoes to appropriately reflect new developments in international relations and that it would simply be better not to have the policy at all rather than to try to reform it.
Secondly, we would argue, that the veto power is undemocratic.
Right now you could have a hundred and ninety five countries all vote in favor of something, but if one of the big five countries decides that they don't want it to happen, then the policy couldn't be implemented.
We've seen this with many resolutions on palestine that have tried to force israel to recognize the palestinians' right to the west bank and things like that.
The united states vetoes them and it doesn't matter if a hundred and fifty other countries voted in support.
Since part of the purpose of the UN is to promote international cooperation, it seems that it flies in the face of that goal to let one country dictate to every other country what UN policy can or cannot be.
Even if that country is as powerful as the united states.
We think the UN should try to make the security council more democratic and that removing the veto is the most obvious way to do so and that it would allow smaller countries to have more influence on regional issues that affect them directly rather than having superpowers dictate policy to them.
Our third argument and final one, is that this prevent solutions to serious problems.
For instance, during the russian invasion of ukraine nothing was done to actually prevent the violence from spreading because russia was able to veto anything on the security council.
Indeed the US and britain didn't even bother bringing resolutions about the problem because they knew russia would veto it.
Emergencies of the sort that the UN was created to solve are not able to be resolved in the united nations because of the veto.
The other side might say, look we were able to intervene in korea during the korean war, but that was only possible because the soviet union at that time was protesting the UN for not admitting, I think ukraine, and so they weren't voting.
But in general, because one major power will always have it in their interest to support international aggression, since in practice they back all of the countries that do this, we think it's very unlikely that you'll ever be able to really solve a problem using the UN security council as long as the veto exists.
So for these reasons we should abolish the UN security council veto.
Thank you.