We should not further exploit unconventional oil.
So we're going to explain to you why oil resources like tar sand should not be further exploited for their energy.
Our first point is about how this prolongs oil dependence and ultimately makes our environmental situation all the more dire.
When we first started hearing a lot about peak oil in the early two thousands from people like al gore and the anti-global warming movement, one of the ideas that was proposed was that society would naturally move towards renewable resources as oil prices grew.
And we saw that over the course of the two thousands, oil prices continued to increase until many people in the US were clamoring for some alternative because they could no longer afford oil.
And the same became true in other countries around the world, although oil prices have generally been higher in europe than in the US.
But what's happened in the last few years as a result of the discovery and exploitation of tar sands and other alternative sources of oil is that the political and social pressure in favor of renewable energy has been dampened.
What this means is any momentum that was built up in the two thousands in favor of things like alternative ways to power cars has died back due to the influx and glut, basically, of american oil.
In particular, the united states for thirty years was the world's largest importer of oil and because of that, there was a strong movement within the US to build alternative energy so that this country would be energy independent.
And so we saw the US as a leader for alternative energy.
But now the united state has actually become one of the world's largest oil exporters due to opening up alternative oil in north dakota and alaska.
So what we see is that the united states has now become a global enemy, basically, of alternative energy.
We're not investing money into this and we're making it less profitable for foreign companies, be they in japan or germany, to ultimately do this, because they don't have access to that american market as long as oil remains very cheap.
So in the long term, this is going to harm our ability to pivot to green energy and prolong the effects of massive oil use.
Therefore, we should not exploit these tar sands and other resources.
Our second argument is that these alternative sources of oil are more harmful than the easy oil of texas or saudi arabia.
In order to access tar sands and many of the other sources of oil that we're talking about in this debate, you basically have to completely destroy the environment where they're found.
All of the sediment is removed and processed in order to extract the oil.
Compare the way that we drill for oil in the gulf of mexico, where a small pipe is driven through the ground but ultimately, very little damage is done.
Now the other side's going to talk about oil spills I'm sure.
But ultimately the harms of the BP oil spill a few years ago are much less to the gulf of mexico than removing all the sediment from large parts of north dakota is to those ecosystems.
So we tell you that this oil not only prolongs our dependence on fossil fuels, but also that its extraction is vastly more harmful than traditional forms of extraction that we see in places like kuwait.
And our third and final point is just a response to tim's analysis about opec.
We tell you that ultimately, the huge drop in oil prices globally has done more to harm ordinary people living in petroleum states than it's done to their governments.
So even if you don't like venezuela or russia's governments, the people who really suffer here are the people not the government.
And I know that russia's not part of opec, but they're probably the best example of this.
The russian ruble has completely collapsed due to the devaluation of oil and as a result, the russian people have been put under a great deal of pressure as they've lost their savings, while vladimir putin remains in power and popular and hasn't been affected at all.
So we don't think that the united states becoming an oil exporter by using this energy has actually been a good thing globally speaking.
It's only hurt innocent people in oil-producing countries.
So for all these reasons, we should not further exploit unconventional oil.
Thank you.