We should adopt multiculturalism.
So by that we mean that we think that the practice of having multiple cultures exist alongside each other in a pluralistic fashion in a country, is preferable to trying to seek to integrate everybody into one monolithic culture.
So we think that basically the comparison here is between the idea of a melting pot, where everyone blends together into one culture, and a salad, where all of the distinct components remain recognizable.
Three arguments: first, we thinks it ultimately multiculturalism leads to more immigrants coming to your country which makes your country more competitive economically.
We see, for instance, that people are more likely to immigrate to countries which are more tolerant.
This is why places like canada actually have a higher rate of immigration than the united states.
We think that when people feel that they can go to a new country and be more accepted for their culture, and not have to worry about integrating into the dominant culture, that they're more likely to choose to move to that country.
You know, imagine that you're a sikh doctor in india and you want to move to the west.
Would you choose to go to a country where you're going to have to give up your religion and your traditional practices in order to fit in, or a country where you can continue any of those practices that are important to you, or that you like, and you'll still be accepted?
We think it's obvious that you would pick the second one given the choice.
At that point we think that you're more likely to bring in immigrants and highly qualified workers from other countries.
Why is this such a boon?
One reason why countries like canada, the US and australia are so much wealthier than the rest of the world is that they have brain gain and other countries have brain drain.
Many of the best and brightest in countries like india or pakistan choose to leave those countries and come to the US, canada, australia.
We think that this makes the countries that receive these immigrants more competitive, because they have you know better doctors, better engineers, better professors, at the expense of every other country.
So all countries should seek to have this big draw factor for immigrants in order to increase their own economic competition on a global scale.
Or competitiveness I should say.
Our second argument is about promoting tolerance.
We think that when there is a norm that everyone has to assimilate to your culture when they moved to your country, that this makes it easier for people to be intolerant.
If they see someone who's a little bit different, or who's sticking out, then they think that person needs to change to become more like me.
That's the melting pot model.
But when people experience multiculturalism, we think it's more likely that they're willing to accept others for who they are, to tolerate small differences and to try to learn to empathize with other people.
A huge driver of racism and religious discrimination and things like that is the empathy gap between people of different backgrounds.
But we think that if you live with the idea that it's okay for people to be different, then it's easier to bridge that empathy gap, versus if you live in a country where it's not acceptable for people to be outside of the mainstream culture.
Our third and final argument is that we think that a better national culture emerges as a result of multiculturalism.
Because recognize that if you have one culture that everyone has to assimilate to then ultimately you're going to have a harmful norms internalized into that mainstream culture.
People who immigrated in previous waves of immigration are likely to look down on current immigrants for instance.
We see this in america.
Many people who are third generation americans look down on people who are first generation americans even though their grandparents or great grandparents work from this country, and that's because they think: " look, we italians or germans or whoever integrated.
Why can't people from latin america do it in the same way? "
We think that when you have multiculturalism you end up with a national culture that's more focused on tolerance and accepting others, that's more willing to adopt things that are good from the immigrant cultures, and more willing to engage in self criticism about what is bad in the existing culture.
So for these reasons we should adopt multiculturalism.
Thank you.