We should not ban beauty pageants.
And just to be clear, what we're defending on our side, we would be fine with having a minimum age to enter beauty pageants, but we think that it would be wrong to categorically ban them completely in society.
Our first argument is about personal freedom.
We think that at its root, it would be very patronizing to ban beauty pageants, because it assumes that the people who participate in them do not understand the benefits and harms that beauty pageants may have in their own life.
The other side tells you that beauty pageants subject women to the male gaze and encourage them to participate in patriarchal norms.
But we think that it's quite possible that the women who participate in them are fully aware of the fact that they're being judged on their appearance, how could they not be, and choose to participate in this because they see some potential for personal gain.
Why should it be that if someone is extraordinarily beautiful, the government should intervene to prevent them from making money off of their appearance?
How is participating in a beauty pageant different than being a model or an actress in some cases?
The other side might say, " oh, this doesn't require talent like those things do ", but we think that some models require more talent than others.
Should we ban people from being porn stars as well because it might be degrading?
Whether or not we ought to, we don't, so we don't think we should single out people who participate in beauty pageants.
We think that the women who participate, especially if they're adults, are able to make their own decisions.
And if we're okay with letting people participate in other activities that could potentially demean them in the eyes of men, we don't think that you should ban this one thing uniquely.
But what's more, implicit in many of the arguments of the other side is that it is anti-feminist to have beauty pageants.
But we would advance a conception of feminism in which by making their own choices about how to live their lives, even if women choose to participate in patriarchal power structures, they're empowering themselves and that this should be the end goal of feminism.
In other words, we should want men and women to be equally capable of making their own choices, even if we don't like the choices that they make in some instances.
You and I may think that people shouldn't participate in beauty pageants, but we ought empower people to make that choice rather than take the choice away from them.
It seems difficult to argue that by removing women's ability to make a choice, in this case to participate in beauty pageants, that you somehow increase their personal freedom, which we think should be the end goal of a feminist movement that claims to empower women.
Our second argument is that banning beauty pageants doesn't actually solve any problem in society, so we ought not to do it.
We think that governments, in general, should only intervene to ban something or require something if it would make a meaningful difference in people's lives.
If the net outcome of a policy is going to be the status quo, it would be better for government to just do nothing.
So what problems might beauty pageants cause?
They might cause people to view women as objects, they might cause people to respect women less.
But we see that both of these are problems already, even without beauty pageants.
I don't think that the miss america pageant is the reason that people are sexist towards women or objectify them.
There are many other reasons in our culture that this might be the case.
I mentioned modeling earlier, and I think it's quite likely that as long as you continue the trend of marketing products by having beautiful women appear in their commercials that people will objectify women.
So I just don't think that beauty pageants are the underlying root of this problem.
At that point, by banning beauty pageants, you don't actually do anything to make the world a better place.
So what's the comparative here?
In a world in which you allow beauty pageants, some people are able to benefit from participating in them.
Yes, that's a world in which sexism and patriarchy exist, but the alternative world is one in which people can't choose to participate in beauty pageants, but in which the world remains patriarchal and sexist.
We would prefer the one with more freedom to the one to less when the patriarchy remains on either side.
Thank you.