This house would not subsidize biofuels.
So in this debate we're arguing that the american government should not subsidize biofuels.
We have four points in this debate.
First, we think that the subsidy of biofuels undermines better alternative sources of energy.
Governments are uniquely poorly suited to pick winners and losers in industry.
We think philosophically this is important to keep in mind, that governments are always going to be made up of individuals who have their own interests at heart.
So people who stand to make money on this are likely to support it and any implementation of this policy is likely to be done in such a way that individual congressmen make money.
But aside from that we tell you that it's very unlikely that government will correctly identify the best technologies to invest in.
When you introduce all of these subsidies everyone wants to invest their research into getting those subsidies.
This means that people are going to turn away from other technologies that might be more effective, like better battery technology at actually reducing our dependence on biofuels.
And this also creates a lock in effect.
Where once a lot of people use biofuels it's very difficult to transition to other sources of energy instead.
So ultimately we might be left with a less efficient form of alternative energy than if we wait and let the market decide what we should adopt.
Our second argument is that government money is fungible.
What we mean by this is that giving money to corporations is not preferable to giving money to the american people.
Recognize that this is basically corporate welfare.
You say if you do the kind of production that we want, we will subsidize you, we'll give you some money back.
But that's money that isn't going to other programs like snap or wic which are important american social welfare programs.
We think that ultimately even if you want to keep this money focused on climate change, things like providing for people who are displaced by climate change or cleaning up the damage of coal power plants et cetera, would all be better uses of this money that have more immediate tangible impacts for people on the ground than giving handouts to large corporations that make cars with bio fuel.
Our third argument is that this won't actually do anything to change the incentives of large oil companies.
BP, exxon, whatever large oil companies the other side thinks are going to be harmed by this policy to reduce oil production actually won't change.
International growth is the driver of increasing oil consumption.
As people in places like india and china have a higher standard of living, they're going to want cars, they're going to want things that rely on oil.
The other team might say, oh, but they'll adopt biofuels as well.
Guess what?
India is already the leading user of alternative fuels like liquid natural gas, but that doesn't mean that they're oil demand isn't also increasing because of development.
So what that means is that exxon and BP will keep drilling the same amount of oil no matter what.
And there's actually no solvency here to reduce carbon emissions because the oil is coming out of the ground either way.
Our last point in this debate is about what we just heard from rachel about international instability.
So rachel tells us that ultimately it's good if we move to biofuels because it means that we're less dependent on middle eastern dictators.
But I want to push back on this idea that saddam hussein or muammar qaddafi or whatever boogie man you prefer controls international oil.
It's true that europe imports lots of oil, but most of it comes from russia rather than the middle east.
And in the united states essentially all of our oil comes from latin america or domestic production or canada.
So what that means is the people you actually put pressure on, our putin in particular, the russians in general, we saw that in the past the invasion of crimea was partly driven because putin needed to shore up his position as a leader because oil prices had fallen so the economy wasn't doing well.
So we think that ultimately strong men like putin or like middle eastern sheiks who rely on oil are forced to be more aggressive when you undermine their oil revenue and that this will lead to international instability which is a tremendous harm of this policy.
So for these four reasons we would not subsidize biofuels.
Thank you.