We should introduce recall elections.
So in some US states, for instance, if people living in that state think the governor is doing a poor job, they can hold a referendum, and everyone votes on whether or not they want to keep the governor or recall him and then elect a new governor.
We think that pretty much every liberal democracy should introduce similar policies.
We've seen this take place in US states, like wisconsin, in recent years.
Two arguments.
The first is about accountability for politicians.
Right now, politicians talk a good talk during elections.
They say that they're going to do things that the people actually care about.
Then they get into office and suddenly they're able to start filling their pockets, and helping out their friends, and listening to big business interests, and basically ignore people until six months before the next election.
There's no accountability for what you do except for the immediate period right before an election.
Because people, generally speaking, have to think about more recent information rather than something you did two years ago.
But what this means is that if we implemented recall elections, you could remove politicians as they did bad things.
Ultimately, we think this has tremendous impacts for a few reasons.
One, it changes the decision-making of politicians up front.
It's now harder to go into politics simply to fill your own pockets or to make money for your friends, so we think that fewer bad people, basically, are going to be willing to go into politics.
But secondly, we also think that it gives you more of an incentive to run on honest policies.
Candidates will have less of an incentive to oversell themselves or to promise things that they can't deliver if they know that they might be removed for failing to fulfill campaign promises.
And thirdly, we think it's much more likely that the politicians who run will actually reflect the will of the constituents, that you'll have support for things like social welfare or policies that ordinary people in their districts want.
The other team might try to tell you that this means politicians will change constantly in order to try to react to the latest polling data, but I don't see why this is necessarily bad.
We think politicians should react to what the people want, even outside of an election year.
It doesn't make much sense to me that simply because you win an election in two thousand sixteen, you should have a mandate to do whatever you want until twenty twenty four.
Circumstances in the world change.
Why shouldn't your governments have to as well?
We can hold people accountable, we can make them be honest, and we think that ultimately this leads to a healthier democracy.
Which leads nicely into our second major argument about democratic engagement.
Right now, if you live in a liberal country, there's really no reason to be engaged in politics between election years.
Nobody really cares about protesters, so you don't have any way to change anything in government if you don't like the way things are going.
You can write to your congressman and things like that, but they don't have any reason to listen to you because they know that ultimately, as long as they're a little better than the other guy during election year, that they don't have anything to worry about.
But if you have the ability to have recall elections, then suddenly it makes sense for people to be engaged throughout their lives rather than only every few years when there's an election.
If people are thinking about whether or not they want to recall a politician, then they need to inform themselves on the issues.
So you create more of an incentive for people to be informed.
But on top of that, you create an incentive for people to contact their elected officials, to think about who else could be governing them.
And we think that this means that people will be more democratically engaged.
A democracy really only works if people are voting, if people are thinking about the issues, that people care and feel like they have a voice.
It's a big problem right now and a reason why there's such low voter turnout in the west, that people don't think they have a voice.
They don't think their vote matters.
We think that we shift that kind of decision-making on our side by encouraging people to participate in electoral politics and in democracy in between election years so that it matters much more to their ordinary day-to-day lives.
So because of accountability and because of democratic engagement, we should introduce recall elections.
Thank you.