Holocaust denial should not be banned.
We have three arguments for our side.
The first is about why we prefer to challenge bad ideas rather than to hide them.
So, let's think about what it looks like when you ban holocaust denial.
People don't change their minds just because this is now illegal, and they don't stop teaching their children that the holocaust is a lie and things like that.
Instead what happens is that they learn to spread these horrible lies through private channels or ways that only people who think like them are going to be aware of.
We would prefer a world where they publish these ideas openly so that there's more of a public debate.
Although there is no academic debate about whether the holocaust happened, having academics or leaders in the community come out and speak against holocaust denial, to point out why it's absurd, to be sure that new people are seeing the evidence, ultimately is better than pretending that holocaust denial doesn't exist.
We tell you that the best disinfectant is sunlight, that when you're able to challenge people and force them to think critically about the idea of holocaust denial, they'll realize that it's absurd and that the holocaust happened.
But if nobody's challenging the idea because the public sphere never hears anyone deny the holocaust, then people aren't going to realize that it's a real thing that happened.
They're going to just accept, at face value, the idea that the holocaust is some sort of, I don't really know a lot about this, but like rothschild scheme or whatever these people say.
And ultimately, they're not going to be able to think critically about it.
So in our world, we tell you that when you challenge these ideas, ultimately more people see that they're bad ideas.
We think that debate, funny enough, actually does have educational benefits in terms of making people aware of the truth.
Our next argument is that we want to raise awareness of the holocaust more generally.
Now it's easy for people to think everyone knows about the holocaust, but we're living at a time when the generation that went through this this event is still alive.
We think that in thirty years, when most of those people have passed away, holocaust awareness, in general, is going to be much lower and that, in particular, in countries that don't have large jewish populations, people are likely to focus less on the holocaust as world war two recedes from recent memory into, you know, the more distant past.
We think that it's important that we're able to challenge holocaust denial, because this will increase the level of education about the holocaust more generally.
The allies said in nineteen forty five that they would never forget, but in order for that to be true, we have to keep educating young people about the holocaust.
Fighting holocaust denial provides an impetus to do so.
If you want children to do things like read books like " night " in schools, then you need to provide a reason for the public to support them doing that, and fighting against holocaust denial provides such an impetus.
If holocaust denial goes underground and most people never hear about it, then they're more likely to be okay with removing the holocaust from school curricula and then it'll be forgotten, like the armenian genocide, which we think is an unacceptable outcome.
Our third and final argument is that if you criminalize holocaust denial, it's harder to know who is a neo-nazi.
We tell you that, right now, you can identify people who are neo-nazis or fascists or far-right extremists, based on their views on the holocaust.
If people are subscribing to magazines and newspapers that promote holocaust denial, then we can put them on lists of potential members of the far right and things like that.
In this way, we can keep an eye on these people, who pose a very real threat to democracy.
If you criminalize holocaust denial, then these people go underground and we lose sight of them.
They're able to pass as normal people, and they won't be held responsible for their horrible and heinous beliefs.
It'll be more difficult to crack down on them when they commit acts of terror, which by the way the far right commits more acts of terror in america than any other group.
Islamic extremists, whoever you want to think about, they commit more acts of terror than anyone.
So we can better put together an idea of who these networks are and who these people are and how they're spreading their horrible ideologies, when we can track them through tracking holocaust denial materials.
So for these reasons, holocaust denial should not be banned.
Thank you.