We should adopt atheism.
By this we mean that people living in western countries today or highly developed countries today should not believe in a god.
So we're agnostic on other forms of supernatural phenomena, but we're arguing that you shouldn't believe in the christian god or allah or similar beings.
Three arguments.
The first is about empiricism.
This is the idea that we should base our beliefs based on what we can observe in the physical universe.
This is the idea that underlies the scientific revolution that's created the world that we live in today.
There is no empirical evidence for the existence of god despite the best efforts of many very intelligent people to prove that there is.
I'm reminded of the famous words of yuri gagarin when he first went into space, I looked and looked but I did not see god.
Ultimately the physical universe has, to date, been able to be explained through natural phenomena, with no need to resort to supernatural phenomena for an explanation.
What that means is that for people who want to define god as the explanation for what we don't know, god becomes an ever shrinking pocket of scientific ignorance.
But what's more, we tell you that it's also problematic to base our ideas of god based on the absence of knowledge.
Short of any positive evidence for the existence of god, we tell you that we ought differ to not believing in him.
This type of thinking has been successful in uncovering various scientific advancements in the past and generally advancing society.
So we think that it's a good standard to apply in this instance as well.
Lacking any positive evidence for the existence of god, we should adopt atheism.
Our second argument concerns truth.
So essentially we tell you that you ought make a good faith attempt to believe what is true.
We think that this is important because if people don't attempt to believe the truth, then it's difficult to form a consensus about how people ought live, act, or behave.
If everyone determines their own, effectively arbitrary standards for what is and is not true, then ultimately people have difficulty communicating with one another.
But by pursuing the actual truth, or the highest truth available to us, we can all come to common ground.
With that in mind we tell you that there are a few reasons not to believe in god.
I've already spoken about empiricism and the lack of physical evidence for god, but we'd also like to point out that people probably ought be skeptical about new claims.
Consider the following, it is not impossible that there is a giant teapot behind the planet jupiter, always blocked from sight on earth by the planet, and invisible to probes chance after as to when they went by the planet jupiter.
But no one believes in this because people apply a certain standard of skepticism.
If someone makes a tremendous claim with no physical evidence, the burden is on them to back it up.
Similarly we think the burden is on people who believe in god to prove that he does exist.
Because the idea that there's a super powerful being that created the universe baffles the mind.
It is not inherently intuitive, it's something that's culturally constructed and we think that it needs to be proven before anyone ought believe it if they're concerned with believing what is true.
Our third and final argument is about the problem of evil.
And this effectively rules out belief in a christian or muslim style god.
Basically christians and muslims believe that god is all knowing, all powerful, and omni-benevolent, which is to say always good.
Yet, the world is an evil place full of horrible things that happened to innocent people.
So it is impossible then that there is a god who knows and understands all these things, omniscience, has the power to stop them or not to have created them in the first place, omnipotence, and is always good, omni-benevolent, because that being, being always good, would choose not to have things like hunger or genocide in the world that we live in.
But at that point where we observe those phenomena in the real world, we think it's clear that that god does not exist.
And since this is the god that most people globally believe in, we think that ultimately we should be atheist rather than believe in such a being.
For these reasons we should adopt atheism.
Thank you.