We should introduce year round schooling.
Right now, in the united states at least, primary and secondary school students tend to have a large break in the summertime when traditionally you would have had lots of work on the farm for them to do.
Most american students currently go to school for about thirty six weeks in the year.
We propose a system wherein students go to school for twelve weeks with one week break afterwards which would have them go to school for forty eight weeks in the year.
Three arguments for why this is better than what we have right now.
The first is that this would better facilitate student's learning.
During summer vacation students forget much of what they learned in the previous year.
This is harmful for a few reasons.
First of all, we tell you that students lose time at the beginning of the new school year reviewing material which they already have learned.
If students go home for the summer and forget the names of the elements or great british authors or whatever they learned the previous year, and they have to relearn them in the fall, then this is time that isn't spent learning new material.
On top of that we tell you that this facilitates learning because students are spending more time in the classroom.
The only way for students to learn material is to be exposed to it in the first place.
We tell you that by having forty eight weeks as opposed to thirty six of time with teachers the students will simply learn more material.
It doesn't matter if you want students to learn more stem, or to be better informed citizens, no matter what you think education should be doing for students, it can be done better with more time with teachers, with more time to learn.
And I'd also like to point out that particularly for low income students it's likely that they aren't using their time during the summer to better educate themselves.
They might be working or they might just be in child care not really doing anything productive.
So if students are in school year round it's likely that they are reading and doing experiments and other useful activities during the summer instead of playing with water guns with their friends which, while gratifying, probably doesn't do a great deal to prepare them for the work force or for college.
Our second argument is about how this helps parents.
Consider that if your children have a twelve week break in the summer you have to arrange childcare for that time.
Whereas when your children are in school, they are in a safe, productive environment for free.
During the summer you have to pay someone to look after your children if you work.
We think that this places an undue burden on low income parents in particular.
In other words, the families that can least afford to bear the cost of additional childcare are likely to be the ones in which both parents work.
So not only are these families now being forced to pay for childcare, but this is a burden that accrues disproportionately to those worst off in society.
We think that it would be far better to provide free childcare for those people.
At that point when we already have their children, probably in a school being supervised, we might as well be teaching them.
Moreover we think that these parents also are going to have their children on a system more like their own work schedule if their children go to school throughout the year.
Parents can choose to take time off of work when their children have their short breaks which allows them to spend more quality time with their children.
We tell you that at the end of the day this is better than having the children home for the summer without lots of time spent with their parents.
Our last argument is that this would lead to a better use of resources.
Consider that if children are at home during the summer, then schools are presumably sitting empty.
We think that this is a waste of the resources that we've invested in those schools, not to use them year round.
If we have to give them power and air and things like that, we might as well have children in them learning at the same time.
And lastly we tell you that this is a misuse of teacher's time.
That ultimately we would be better off having teachers spend more time teaching and less time working on other projects during the summer.
While no doubt these are of value to the individual teachers, we think that having more face to face time with children would ultimately allow teachers to do their job more effectively and place less of a burden on them during that thirty six week period that they had before.
For all these reasons we should introduce year round schooling.
Thank you.