We should not ban boxing.
We're going to provide you with three arguments for why we don't think boxing should be banned.
We think that boxing should continue to be allowed and encouraged in countries like the US, britain, and other highly developed liberal democratic countries, and also that boxing should remain an olympic sport and otherwise participated in internationally.
We're okay with regulating boxing, such as preventing young men from participating before a certain age or requiring certain safety regulations, but we think it would be a mistake to ban the sport in its entirety, which is what the other side needs to prove to you in this debate: that it should be banned categorically, not merely regulated to be safer.
Our first argument is that we should respect the choices that athletes make.
The other side tries to tell you that people can't internalize the risk of boxing, but I don't think that you have to be a great scholar to understand that a sport where you try to achieve knockouts is potentially dangerous.
If anything, I would say that boxers are probably much more pragmatic than athletes from other sports about how they can be safe with things like concussions and how they can take care of themselves.
We see that, for instance, in kickboxing, which may be a different sport depending on your interpretation or may be interpreted or included in this motion but either way, that they wear headgear.
We see that boxers don't box bare knuckles in the olympics.
Ultimately, there are steps being taken to ensure safety.
And what's more, we tell you that athletes have coaches.
If you think about the relationship between boxers and their coaches, you have an older person mentoring a younger person, who is well aware of the risk that's being posed and can explain it and interpret it for them.
So we think that people can make this decision for themselves.
But also, how is this different than letting people choose to participate in other dangerous sports?
In american football, many athletes have career-ending concussions and suffer from long-term brain damage.
Yet no american would propose seriously that we get rid of the sport.
How is boxing any different?
It may be slightly more dangerous but at that point, it just seems like a matter of punishing one sport arbitrarily while allowing other sports to go on.
In her past speech, rachel criticized boxing because she felt that people would retire from the sport and not have a good career afterwards, but this is a problem for soccer players and basketball players as well.
Many of them retire or aren't able to play professionally and have to find another career.
We just don't think this is a problem that's worth banning boxing.
It's a problem that's more endemic to sport.
Our second argument is that boxing provides a structured and stylized way for people to express violence.
Violence is a part of human culture.
People experience some sort of cathartic reaction to seeing violence in media or entertainment.
There's a reason why people like watching " saving private ryan ", even though it has that very violent introduction sequence to the movie.
In the same way, people like watching boxing.
Violence may not be part of their own life, but they have some sort of desire to engage with violence, and boxing is a safe way to do so, and ultimately preferable to other violent sports we tell you, where people are more likely to be seriously injured or that are less regulated.
So we think that boxing has an important role in our society as a way for people to express themselves through violence in an ultimately constructive and regulated way rather than lashing out otherwise.
Not every boxer is floyd mayweather.
We don't think that boxing makes people horrible human beings.
We think that if anything, it provides an outlet for some people to express violence who might otherwise express it in a more negative way.
And lastly, we would argue that banning boxing would do a disservice to cultures where it's uniquely important.
If you think about filipinos, many filipinos greatly love boxing and it's a very popular sport there.
Manny pacquiao obviously is a filipino national hero.
So we think that ultimately the harms of this would fall disproportionately on certain cultures that value boxing more highly and that this is unfair to those groups.
For all these reasons, we should not ban boxing.
Thank you.