Bull fighting should be banned.
So, bullfighting is a traditional, I don't know if you call it sport or a game, where a matador lures a bull, and tries to kill it.
It was, I believe, invented in medieval spain, and was popular in southern france, some other parts of europe, spread to latin america from spain, but predominantly is practice there.
And we're saying that, it should be completely illegal there shouldn't be any phase out period, we would prefer that this happen tomorrow.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for why it ought be banned.
The first is that, bullfighting is fundamentally cruel.
Recognize that, this is a game made of torturing an animal.
We see that, even countries like spain have banned cock fighting, and other sports which are cruel to animals, and we don't see why bullfighting should be unique.
It seems clear that, bulls deserve moral consideration.
Recognize that, while cattle are not the most intelligent creatures, that certainly they prefer pleasure to pain, certainly, given the opportunity, they will avoid dying, they'll take steps to preserve their own lives, they may not be as intelligent as human beings, but we can see that, clearly, their preference is being violated when they're killed, verses when they're not.
We think that, moreover not only are they being killed, but they're tormented along the way.
They're stabbed with swords, this is part of the game,.
We see that, ultimately, this is much worse than other ways that animals are mistreated in our society, like the meat industry, because the torture is part of the pleasure that people experience, when they see a bullfight.
It seems that, at the point where you're violating the or the eh the wishes of a moral actor, that it's clear that this is unethical, and we think that, broadly speaking, state should intervene to prevent unethical behavior.
We see that other forms of animal cruelty had been banned, not because they harm the state in any way, but because they're seen as unethical.
We see that it's or that it's banned for people to litter, say, which is also an ethical.
So it's clear that, governments intervene in this way regularly throughout europe.
We think that, bullfighting should not be special case, just because it has some cultural legacy.
Things like cock fighting also have a cultural legacy, but they've been banned because they're fundamentally cruel.
Our second argument is that, bullfighting harm spain's international image.
When you remind people that spain is a country where the national sport is tormenting animals, I don't think anyone has a positive reaction to the country.
We think that, particularly because spain's economy is so dependent on tourism, that this is something that they ought to be aware of.
But moreover, we think that, on a european scale, this harm spain's image.
Other european countries take a much stricter line against animal cruelty.
We think that it's very likely that, in the future, the european union is going to intervene, if spain continues to refuse to ban it in itself.
What does that do to spain's international image, if the european union has to intervene to ban animal cruelty?
Well, we think first of all that, it makes it look like the country's government is incompetent, which is already a risk given spain's poor governance leading up to and during the financial crisis.
But two, we think it makes it more likely that the international community will be unsympathetic to spain in other spheres.
So we think that, for instance, if catalonia, a region of spain which wants to secede, takes this to the next level, and request european or international intervention to support their secession, that it's much more likely that people will be sympathetic, especially given that catalonia has actually banned bullfighting, although it's a traditional sport there as well.
In general, no matter what spain wants to do in its involvement with the international community, whether that be IMF loans, or hosting the olympics, we think tat it will always be hindered by the fact that they have this stain on their national character, in the form of bullfighting.
So, because of the moral worth of the bull, and also because of a harm to spain's image, bullfighting should be banned, thank you.