We should not adopt multiculturalism.
So I want to be very clear what this debate is about.
When we say don't adopt multiculturalism, we mean that people should assimilate into society rather than integrate.
So here's the difference: when people assimilate, they give up many aspects of their pre-immigration culture in order to take on aspects of the dominant culture in their new country.
A good example of this would be people moving from eastern europe to the united states in the early twentieth century.
If you came from the russian empire to america in nineteen hundred, you most likely gave up your original language, your religion was probably normalized to certain american customs, we see that many orthodox churches in america are very different than orthodox churches in the former soviet union, for instance.
And it's quite likely that you adopted many parts of the american national identity, things like baseball and other american ideas in place of your traditional games and views.
So we think that that's preferable to a world like the one will describes in which people keep their religion and keep their customs.
Will says that he wants to avoid problems like ghettoization, but we think that even if you have russian or italian or irish neighborhoods in american cities, at the end of the day after, one or two generations, everyone is so americanized that it's really just a legacy thing and not something that affects people day to day.
So with that in mind, we have two big arguments.
The first is about national unity.
We think that one reason why the united states was able to mobilize millions of people of different backgrounds for the two world wars was because of its policy of assimilation rather than integration.
In other words, the united states didn't adopt very much from russian culture when russians were coming over here in the early twentieth century in large numbers.
Instead, we encouraged immigrants to adopt elements of american culture.
But the result is that our country was stronger in times of war because we were able to know that everyone shared certain core beliefs and core values as an american and that there were certain commonalities across different groups within america because people had assimilated so much to american culture.
So you could have army units where you had, you know, african american, russian american, irish american soldiers with an anglo-american officer or shift around any combination of those, and it wouldn't be a problem because everyone ultimately was an american rather than a member of the groups that they were part of before they came to this country.
We think that ultimately this may increase the strength of the nation in times of war, and therefore it is desirable.
But our second argument is that we think, in the long term, we get better treatment for minorities, and I'd like to compare a couple of different examples from around the world.
When people move from muslim countries to the united states today, maybe they keep their religion, but ultimately they speak english as their primary day-to-day language most often, they send their children to secular american schools, oftentimes their daughters don't cover their heads, they adopt more american customs in terms of dress, and people basically americanize to a very high degree.
Compare this to a country like france, where what you have instead is people who move to france from countries like algeria, and I'm not putting blame on these people, oftentimes it's for colonial reasons that they're moving their that are outside of their control, but they move to these countries and they maintain their original language in their communities.
They often don't integrate into the french way of life, and sometimes that's because the country doesn't allow them to do so.
Will touched on this when he talked about nation states.
But we think that it would be preferable to have people assimilate in a more american fashion, rather than try and fail to integrate, because what will talks about, things like celebrating diversity, ultimately looks an awful lot like people remaining different.
We think that in the long term becoming more like the same is likely to get you better treatment than remaining different and that if you see how groups like italians and jews are treated much better now in america than they were a hundred years ago, I think you have a clear road map for how this can happen.
So for all these reasons, we should not adopt multiculturalism.
Thank you.