We should increase internet censorship.
By this we mean that countries in which the internet is basically laissez faire and not regulated should introduce limits on what content people are allowed access.
For instance we see that recently britain has taken steps to limit people's access to pornography and we think that that's the kind of thing we're debating about here.
Not a sort of chinese system wherein people don't have access to most of the internet, but one in which the government filters certain content and I think the debate comes down to what that content ought to be.
Our first argument is about limiting access to obscene material.
Now I'm not going to defend the conservative ban in britain of pornographic material, but I do think that everyone can agree that things like child pornography shouldn't be accessible in any country.
I think that you can use internet censorship to make it more difficult for people to, one, access, and two, distribute child pornography.
In doing so, you also reduce the incentives for its creation.
Which means that you can reduce the amount of child abuse going on within and without your country.
We think that this is obviously a huge end and that even if you lose out on some legitimate content, the benefits that accrue by limiting child abuse greatly outweigh them so we're willing to bite that harm.
Our second argument is about radicalism online.
We see that since the early days of the internet, radical groups have used it to recruit members.
Whether that be al qaeda in the early two thousands, isis in recent years, or now the alt right and neo-nazis in america and europe today.
Isis for instance has used twitter as one of their main resources to get young men in europe to join their cause.
Attackers in france, belgium, and britain have all been found to be radicalized online.
We think that at that point, when certain material online poses a real threat to the safety of a nation, that it is acceptable to censor access to radical islamic materials.
If fewer young men had access to these materials, then fewer would become terrorists because this is the means by which they are being radicalized.
So we think that this is ultimately a tool to fight against terrorism.
But moreover, the alt right has used the internet as a way to legitimize their narrative about white supremacy, racism, and bigotry.
Because the internet acts as an amplifying chamber wherein a few, hardcore, neo-nazi types can seem much more popular than they are.
This draws people in to think that their message is normal and ultimately makes more people think that this kind of discourse is acceptable even though it isn't.
At the end of the day we think that it's worth it to censor access to this type of material so that people don't think that being a fascist is acceptable nowadays, when in fact of course it isn't.
And that the harms that these alt righters pose to democracy, ultimately makes it acceptable for the state to take extreme action, like censoring the internet.
Our third and final argument is perhaps a little less important than those but still matters to some people, namely private property violations on the internet.
Now many people are not sympathetic to the big hollywood movie studios and the big record companies who are losing money due to piracy, but remember that this also affects artists and independent labels and indie film houses as well.
At the end of the day, piracy has greatly reduced the profitability of music and film.
There's much less incentive to produce music and film, especially to take risks on new genres or new artists, if you know that the amount of profit you receive is going to be much lower than it was twenty years ago before widespread piracy.
We think that this disproportionately harms groups that haven't had access to the media production in the past.
That it's less likely that we'll see types of media targeting new groups or groups that pirate more often, such as low income people, because there's no money to be made if everyone just gets everything on the pirate bay.
So we think that it would be acceptable to censor websites like the pirate bay if it means that more people are consuming media legitimately.
For all of these reasons we think that we should increase internet censorship.
Thank you.