We should ban partial birth abortions.
So what this debate is about is abortions that are performed in the late second or in the third trimester of the pregnancy.
In which the fetus is partially extracted, and has its brain scooped out by a doctor and then the fetus is removed.
So these abortions are performed for many reasons.
Some might be performed at the mother's request, others might be performed for the safety of the mother or because the fetus has already died, but we are opposed to this in any instance where it isn't medically required.
So, with that in mind we have two main arguments.
The first of which is that killing a fetus that is able to feel pain, is ultimately wrong.
We're not contending that the fetus is the same as a baby that has already been born, but what we are saying is that if you look at the net harm to the fetus versus the mother, you're going to weigh down on the side of the fetus in every single instance.
Why is this true?
Let's consider the worse case where a mother has severe illness or mental health harms that are actually being suffered from her by the pregnancy.
We would be okay with this in those instances because there is a clear and present danger to the mother's life in the form of mental illness.
But at other times, when a person may not want to bring a child to term, but isn't experiencing this anguish or mental illness, we think that it's true that there is a certain amount of suffering and disutility going on, but the loss of all future utility to that fetus, compounded with the disutility of having itself be killed by a doctor, clearly you're always going to weigh those harms much more highly.
We see that for instance the anguish caused by this pregnancy, is going to be temporary, whereas the harm of being dead, ultimately weighs on forever.
But aside from that, we see that although the fetus isn't a person right now, it's clearly has the potential to develop into one.
Many children are born prematurely at an and survive at an age when this type of abortion would be performed.
So it's clear that the fetus would be able to survive and develop into a healthy human given the opportunity.
So at the end of the day we think that it is fundamentally unethical to kill a fetus that has the potential to become a citizen in the future, and that on top of that in your moral decision making, you want always consider more highly the person who served or being that serves to lose the most, rather than the being that serves to have the most rights in the status quo.
This is why for instance, even though animals obviously have lesser moral standing than humans, we still don't let people have cock fights, say.
Because although there might be utility for the people who practice that sport, the disutility to the roosters is much greater.
Now, we're not trying to compare these mothers who want an abortion to cock fighters, but we do think that at the end of the day it would be unethical for the state not to consider what is best for the fetus given this tremendous amount of disutility versus the utility to the mother which, though not marginal, is still lesser.
Our second argument is that we think that it is unjust or unethical for doctors to participate in these partial birth abortions.
Remember that when someone becomes a medical doctor, they swear the hippocratic oath, which basically states they will never do any intentional harm to a human being.
Now, it's questionable at what point a fetus become a person, but certainly they are a human being in the biological sense.
We think that doctors ought not be performing this late term abortion that involves killing a fetus therefore, because that fetus, one, is going to develop into a person, and two, meets our standards for what a human is, namely, the ability to continue on as a human being, I suppose.
But whatever standard you want to use, we think that doctors are violating one of the oaths that they took, a very serious one moreover, when they perform this type of abortion.
We think that the government should step in to prevent them from doing so.
Since the state takes responsibility for regulating doctors and for managing medical ethics, so there's a clear precedent for government to intervene to prevent doctors from committing misdeeds and ultimately this would fall into that category.
So for these two reasons, we should ban partial birth abortions.
Thank you.