We should lower the drinking age.
So we're going to argue that in jurisdictions where the drinking age is higher than the age of majority, it should be lowered to the age of majority.
So, in america, it should be lowered from twenty-one to eighteen, in ontario, it should be lowered from nineteen to eighteen, and so on.
Three arguments for our side today.
First: we think that the law needs to be principally consistent in order to be legitimate.
Right now in the US, in ontario, in other regions around the world, you can vote as soon as you reach the age of majority.
You can serve in the military, sometimes against your will, you can get a job, you can buy a car or a house, but you can't buy a beer.
We think that ultimately you undermine the effectiveness of the law, when it appears arbitrary in people's eyes.
If people think that the law is arbitrary, they're more likely to disrespect it.
If they think that the law is fair and just, then they're more likely to respect it.
So right now, when people can't buy a beer but they can buy a shotgun in america, we think that people think the law's absurd, and this tells them that the law is not something that they need to respect in a very high way.
So we think that ultimately, because of the high prevalence of underage drinking which is impossible to prevent, you undermine respect for the law, in general, and create a culture where people try to avoid the law and get out of doing things that are legal that is extremely widespread.
Probably, a large majority of american and canadian teenagers drink long before they reach the age when they're permitted to.
If the law were principally consistent, we think more people would have respect for the law and you wouldn't have that culture.
So ultimately, we should lower the drinking age for that reason.
If someone can buy a gun.
We say let them buy a beer.
Our second argument is about personal freedom.
Realize that the people we're discussing in this debate are all adults.
We trust them to make other decisions on their own well-being, for instance, what kind of healthcare they want to have, what education they want to pursue.
They're past the age at which the state is making decisions for them, like making them go to high school.
We think that, with this in mind, it's important that we defer to individual freedom for a few reasons.
One: drinking doesn't really harm anyone else.
It's a personal decision.
Remember that drunk driving is illegal either way.
At that point, we think that governments, in general, should defer to letting people make their own decisions if no one else is at risk.
The reason this is true is that people know their own interests better than anyone else knows their interest.
There's a poverty of information that you and I have about any third person.
They know facts about their own life that we don't have access to.
They know about their own experiences in a way that we never will.
With that in mind, we should defer to letting these individuals make their own decisions about whether alcohol consumption is right for them.
And I think it's quite likely that if you gave people this freedom and respect, that things like binge drinking culture would actually decrease, because people would be empowered to make responsible decisions rather than encouraged to make irresponsible ones, like drinking too much or drinking illegally.
Our third argument today is that we are opposed to public morality, in general.
The main case for making it more difficult for young people to buy alcohol is that certain parts of the population think it's immoral to drink alcohol or to drink alcohol in excess.
We think, again, that individuals should be free to make their own decisions.
If certain christians in america and canada don't want to drink alcohol in excess or don't want to drink at all or don't want to drink until they're older, those people should have every right and freedom to do so, but they shouldn't be able to impose their will on people of other religions, who don't have these particular beliefs.
We think that, in effect, higher drinking ages are a form of morality that's imposed on the general public and that this is not the role of the state.
Ultimately, the government should protect people from each other.
It should uphold the law, but the law that it implements should recognize individuals' own autonomy and not apply one form of viewing the world or one way of life onto everyone.
For these reasons, we should lower the drinking age.
Thank you.