Sex education should be mandatory.
So in this debate, I think that we're talking about sex education, things like condom use, teaching children about pregnancy, how to avoid STD's, things like that.
And we're talking about this in state run schools.
So, when we say mandatory, we think that, you know, this would be a class, probably offered in health, or gym class, at a school.
So two big arguments for you, but they're both about individual health.
So before we get into those two arguments, I just want to say that, we think that the state has a compelling interest in better individual health.
Young people, who are healthy, are going to be better workers in the future, so the hope to grow the economy, if it's a developing country, they're going to help your country to develop.
And on top of that, since states ultimately pay for health care, through things like national health in britain, we think that, ultimately the state has a compelling interest to limit its expenses, with regard to sexual health.
Two big arguments then, the first is about how this limits teen pregnancies.
We think that, most teen pregnancies are ultimately caused by ignorance.
Young people who don't understand how teen pregnancy actually works, because they haven't been educated by their parents, who might be conservative or religious, or even parents who don't fully understand sexual health on their own, because they weren't educated in the past.
So, we think that many young women, in particular, are really grossly harmed, because they have unprotected sex, they don't understand the risks of getting pregnant, and then suddenly they have a child, and their community wants them to drop out of school, and raise that child, so ultimately, their education gets put on hold, they've a hard time getting a good job, and their future earnings are greatly decreased, their ability to you know go on to improve their own standard of living of their family standard of living is really decreased.
We see that, this has huge impacts on these people, especially teenage girls, as a result of teenage pregnancy.
But, it's relatively easy to educate people about how to avoid pregnancy.
You know, everything that you learned in school, especially condom use I think, is going to be important here.
Many young people, even in very developed countries like the US, their parents don't teach them anything about condom use, they might know that condoms exist, but perhaps they don't understand how to safely apply them, or when to use them.
So ultimately, teen pregnancies, that are easily prevented through condom use, are not going to be prevented, and that's to say nothing about forms of birth control, that young woman might not even know exist.
A lot of them probably know about the pill in developed countries, but in many developing countries, they might just be completely ignorant of the pill's existence.
And in the US, they may have a lot of stereotypes, or misinformation from the media about it, that would limit their ability to get on something, that could really help them to take control of their own life, not only with regards to pregnancy, but also with regard to regulating menstruation.
Ultimately we think that, you really empower young women as a result of sexual education.
Our second argument then is about how this limits STD's.
So, everybody today is very concerned about the spread of HIV and aids, and if we look at the regions where HIV has spread the most rapidly, it's in areas with very limited sexual education.
If you look at it in the US, it's been mostly in the gay community that, people been really affected by this awful disease.
The reason why that's probably true, is that schools, even up, unfortunately, until the present, don't teach young people about homosexual sexual education.
They only focus on heterosexual sexual education, which means that young people aren't informed about how to avoid getting an STD, they don't know that they need to use condoms, and things like that, with homosexual intercourse.
So ultimately, we think that, sex ed should be mandatory to limit the spread of STD's, not only, you know obviously, nobody wants an STD, but especially things like HIV, they can actually be life threatening in the future, and obviously they'd run up a huge cost for the government, in the forms of treatment.
So, because we better stop teen pregnancies, and empower young women, and because we limit the spread of HIV, sex education should be mandatory, thank you.