We should ban human cloning.
So by this we mean that all nations around the world should forbid human cloning for any purpose.
We're not going to make a distinction between so-called therapeutic and reproductive cloning in this debate.
We think that any cloning of a human being ought be illegal in every country around the world.
So, two arguments for why we think this is the case.
The first is that we think that it would be deeply unethical to clone another human being because of the effect it would have on the clone once produced.
Imagine the person that you create when you clone a human being.
You create a person who has no mother, no father.
Someone who has no family, no place where they belong in society, presumably they're going to be raised by the state or by these scientists who have treated them.
So we think it's very very improbable that this person will ever have a happy, fulfilling, normal life.
Ordinarily, society goes to great lengths to facilitate children having happy, normal lives so that they can go on to become productive citizens.
We see that the state spends a great deal of money facilitating adoptions to loving homes for instance, and a great deal of money removing children from unhappy homes.
So what happens when you have this cloned child who belongs to say, I don't know, the university of michigan who is being raised by a team of scientists, who presumably does not receive the same kind of nurturing and love that a child being raised elsewhere would.
You're creating someone who, in the best case, lives in some version of foster care and in the worst case is treated like a lab rat.
We think that this is deeply troubling and completely unfair.
This clone child is no less deserving of an ordinary, happy life than any other human being.
They're a human, they have a soul like anyone else, but we think it's improbable that they will ever be provided with these opportunities.
We also tell you that it's deeply troubling that you give private corporations or universities the ability to effectively create people for their own ends.
We think that once you allow cloning, it's likely that companies are going to clone people with certain traits in order to examine their genome.
Say, you'll have people created for a very specific research purpose.
We think that this is likely to lead those people to have severe psychological issues once they're old enough to understand that they were effectively created like a lab rat who's bread to have brown fur.
We don't think that it's acceptable to put anyone, particularly an innocent child, into this situation.
So we ought ban cloning because it is clearly not in the interest of these hypothetical, cloned children.
Our second argument is about the legal difficulties behind permitting human cloning.
Ordinarily, a child's next of kin have a certain legal obligation to that child.
In some countries it might only be the parents, in other countries this obligation might extend past the parents to other close relatives, but we see that no one has a legal obligation to the clone.
At least that's what it seems to me since they don't have a mother or father the way that another person would.
So does, to use my earlier example, the university of michigan have an obligation to feed and clothe this child?
We think that it's very impersonal to assert that that's the case, and we think that it's very like that you would end up with cloned children who don't have clear legal guardians that they would follow in the guardianship of the state, which is obviously something that we want to avoid because of both the expense to the public and also the way that it affects the child.
But I also think it's troubling in terms of the relationship of the cloned child to the cell donor because recognize, you know if someone was making clone of a person, maybe they would take one of my skin cells and grow it into a new clone.
What is the clone's relationship to me at that point?
We think that this is very unclear and that there's no satisfactory resolution to this.
Do I have the same obligation as a father or do I have no obligation?
Because it is unfair to the clone first of all and secondarily because of legal difficulties, we should ban human cloning.
Thank you.