We should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
So, hydroelectric dams are just ordinary dams that produce electricity and by further exploit, we think that countries around the world should seek to build hydroelectric dams preferentially, relative to traditional sources of energy and at a greater rate than they're doing in the status quo.
So, three big arguments for you.
The first is about why we need to transition to renewable energy.
So, the first question there would be: is hydroelectric power renewable?
But we see that rivers will continue to run whether or not we dam them, so it seems very likely that this is a sustainable form of energy in the long term, and it's one that doesn't involve any sort of pollution.
It is true that hydroelectric dams may disrupt the flow of water.
It may be damaging, say, to migratory fish, but we see that there are ways to work around this.
We might disable a hydroelectric power plant during a migration by animals, or we might come up with a way for fish to bypass it.
There're there are these little steps that salmon can jump up they use at some hydroelectric dams up in alaska, for instance.
Scientists are clever.
I'm sure that they'll be able to come up with a workaround here.
We think that it's essential, though, that we transition to green energy to reduce our carbon emissions.
The population is only growing and, particularly, as regions like china and india develop and these people have a higher quality of life, they're going to demand more access to energy.
We need to ensure that that energy is provided in the cleanest way possible, which means building things like hydroelectric dams.
The other great advantage of hydroelectric dams is that you can build them on almost any river in the world.
Wind power only works where you have strong wind currents, so that might be good in massachusetts, but not so good in florida.
And solar power, of course, relies on getting lots of sun which means that as you move further north, it's less and less useful.
Hydroelectric power can be used almost anywhere in the world, so we think that it is the type of green energy that we ought most invest our efforts into.
Our second argument is about energy independence.
Many countries around the world rely on their neighbors for electricity production.
To use a benign example, germany recently closed down lots of nuclear power plants after the fukushima disaster in japan, and now they buy electricity from france, where it's produced by nuclear power plants.
I thought it was a bit funny, but what's important here is that countries can improve on their energy independence through further exploitation of hydroelectric dams.
A country like egypt, for instance, that's built massive dam projects in the past, has reduced their dependence on the international community for energy.
We think that by building hydroelectric dams, you therefore strengthen your own economy because you avoid imports, and you also create skilled jobs in the form of the engineers who would work at these plants and, in addition, you create work in terms of constructing these hydroelectric dams, etcetera.
We think that it would be a stimulus for the economy.
And our last argument is that we think that it is a wasted opportunity when rivers flow undammed.
Recognize that the energy that a river contains when it flows to the sea is being spent one way or the other.
If you build a hydroelectric dam, then that energy can go to powering hospitals and schools and houses.
And if you don't, then that energy goes to pushing some sand around at the bottom of an estuary.
We think that it's important that we don't waste energy.
It's a finite resource, however much of it that there may be in nature.
Given that our potential to spend energy in the future is going to grow exponentially it seems, it has certainly grown exponentially since the beginning of the nineteenth century, we think that we need to take every effort now to harness as much of the earth's energy as possible so that future people may have a higher quality of life and a better standard of living and that, ultimately, it would be a wasted opportunity not to further exploit these hydroelectric dams.
So because it's a good form of green energy, because it promotes energy independence, and because not to do so would be a wasted opportunity, we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
Thank you.