We should introduce goal-line technology.
So we're going to argue that this technology which allows referees to use a computer to check whether a goal was actually scored should be used in high level football competitions, such as the premier league, champions league, la liga, and world cup.
We think that whenever possible, these technologies should be implemented in a league, but we recognize that some smaller leagues might not have the ability to do so.
We think that ultimately this would be beneficial for the leagues and for football as a whole.
Three arguments for our side.
The first is that this should make football a more fair sport.
It's important that fans perceive that a sport is fair if you want them to watch.
And realize that all of the money that football teams bring in is contingent on people watching the sport.
They sell advertisements and spots on TV and seats in stadia, and these are how they make all of their money.
So this is very important for the leagues and the teams within them, as businesses.
Goal-line technology makes the sport more fair because now you're able to objectively measure whether a given goal was scored.
Right now we can have highly trained officials try to make a judgment call but at the end of the day, it will never be as accurate as having a computer make that determination.
We think that when fans understand that something completely objective is determining whether or not goals have been scored, that there will be a better appearance of fairness within the league and that many people who don't watch football right now, because they think it's rigged or because they think that it's not fair, would be more likely to support the sport and spend their money on it if we introduce this goal-line technology.
In particular, at a time when more sports are becoming popular in traditional football areas, such as basketball gaining popularity in europe, we think it's important for leagues and for teams to improve their reputation and improve their standing in the community.
Our second argument is about accountability for officials.
While match fixing is relatively rare in both football and any professional highly organized sport, we think that it's important that we take every step possible to limit match fixing.
The reason why is that all of the harms listed above to having a worse reputation, such as fewer viewers and less advertising money, are greatly multiplied by the perception that the officiating is unfair.
Right now, if there's a perception that popular players or popular teams are given more credit by the officials, then that feeds into all the harms we told you about earlier.
Where goal-line technology makes football a better sport is that it introduces independent accountability for officials.
Someone from the league or someone from fifa or another body can go in and see if the referee was actually making a legitimate call.
This makes match fixing basically impossible, because referees can't lie about who scored what goal.
So all of the benefits above come through uniquely from goal-line technology.
Our third and final point is about having football conform to international sporting norms.
While it's true that football is the most popular sport in the world, it's not growing as quickly as some other sports.
Basketball, in particular, is rapidly becoming more and more popular worldwide.
We think that it's important that football conform to the expectations people have for sport more broadly if it's going to grow in areas where it hasn't been as popular in the past, such as the united states, and maintain its status as the most popular sport in countries where it's very popular right now.
If you're a new sports fan in america or china and you're deciding whether you want to spend more money on football or basketball, one thing you might ask yourself is which one is more fair, so or which one seems more legitimate to you.
And because other sports, like basketball, like baseball, use technology comparable to goal-line technology, it's important that football do this as well so that they're able to keep fans and to attract new fans.
So for all of these reasons, we should introduce goal-line technology.
Thank you.