We should legalize polygamy.
So, just so everyone's clear what we're talking about in this debate.
We think that in countries where polygamy is currently illegal, such as the united states, britain, canada, that these countries should stop prosecuting people for polygamy, should add it to the books as something legal if they need to do so because of a civil code, or get rid of a law that prevents it if they have common law, all that.
But on top of that, by polygamy we mean the practice of someone taking more than one spouse.
We're okay with this being one husband with many wives, one wife with many husbands, or if that district would otherwise allow it, you could also have same sex polygamists marriages, we're fine with that if it would otherwise be legal in that country.
So yes in the united states, no in germany, for instance.
So, with that in mind, we have three arguments today.
The first is that banning polygamy is tantamount to religious discrimination.
Recognize that the reason why polygamy has been banned in countries like the united states or britain is because there's a strong norm against polygamy in certain christian denominations.
We see that the catholic church, for instance, has preached against polygamy for hundreds and hundreds of years, and that catholic countries overwhelmingly, perhaps all of them, ban polygamy.
We think that first of all, it's unfair for countries to make law based on religious norms.
We think that individuals should be free to choose to follow or not to follow these religious laws.
First of all, if people don't have a real choice about following a religious custom, then they're probably not actually doing anything to fulfill their spiritual obligations, but on top of that we think that, for instance, if you are a muslim living in a predominantly catholic country, you should still be able to practice polygamy because that's acceptable within the confines of your own faith.
A good example of this is why polygamy was banned in the united states.
Some of you may know that mormonism is a religion which originated in america and which encouraged, until very recently, its followers to practice polygamy.
So the united states banned polygamy, and used it as a way to prosecute mormons as a religious minority throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth century.
Mormon leaders eventually changed their rules in order to end persecution by the american government.
But we think that this is completely unjust, and that if people wish to practice polygamy due to a certain religious obligation, that they should be free to do so, in the same way that people are free to practice anything else religious that doesn't harm others.
Our second argument is that polygamy is a victimless crime.
In general, we think that government should only intervene in people's personal freedom to limit it, when there are actually going to be third party harms.
We think that, for instance, it's okay to ban smoking because secondhand smoke puts other people at risk of lung cancer.
It's okay to ban theft because you don't have a right to take other people's things.
But we don't see any real harm to polygamy.
Why is this true?
So in order for people to get married they have to enter into a contract, which means that they can't be coerced because presumably they're going to have to go before a judge and say that they weren't coerced, in order to get this marriage contract.
Rules like the minimum age for getting married are still going to exist, so we're not worried about young women being pressured by older men into polygamous marriages, like some people might say would happen.
We think that everyone will have to follow all other existing laws.
So at that point, there's no real harm because people are consenting into this, and it ought be permitted to maximize personal freedom.
Our third argument is that bans on polygamy are unenforceable.
Why is this true?
So in a country like the US, where it has strict laws against polygamy and has had them for over a hundred years, we see that there's still no way to stop people from living in a polygamous fashion.
Lots of people never go down to city hall to get a marriage certificate or whatever you may do in other countries, they just choose to live as husband and wife, treat each other like such.
We see that marriage is predominantly a social and religious phenomenon, and not a government one.
At that point, you can't stop people from having polygamous marriages in a religious or social setting, so there's ultimately no reason to ban it from a legal perspective, because you can't prevent the actions in themselves, only the state recognition of those actions.
So at the end of the day, we think we should legalize polygamy in order to end religious discrimination, because it's a victimless crime, and because the law is unenforceable.
Thank you.