We should legalize same sex marriage.
So I'm going to argue that countries around the world which had the rule of law and which generally protect people's rights should allow people to marry those of the same sex in the same way that they allow people to marry those of the opposite sex.
We don't think that domestic partnership programs like what they have in germany right now are sufficient.
We think that it needs to be an equal form of marriage with what people who are marrying someone of the opposite sex have access to.
With that in mind, three arguments for our side.
The first is about equality under the law.
Right now, in germany for instance, if you happen to be attracted to the same sex you don't have equal protection under the law as someone who is attracted to the opposite sex.
They are allowed to marry whoever they want and whoever they love and you are not.
We think that fundamentally because the law in germany as well as in other liberal countries around the world is predicated on the idea that all citizens are equal citizens that this is fundamentally unfair.
You cannot claim to have equality under the law if some people are able to enter into a contract and other people are not.
In particular, we think this is egregious because sexual orientation is an intrinsic characteristic.
Research and the experience of millions of people around the world tells us that people don't choose who they are attracted to, but rather this is something that is intrinsic to us.
This is similar to the way that we don't choose our sex or our race so we ought not be discriminated against on those terms.
We're, broadly speaking, fine with limiting people's rights based on things like age which change over time, but not based on things like sex or race.
We think that sexual orientation is more like the latter than the former and therefore that we ought guarantee equality under the law for people regardless of their sexual orientation.
And this would necessitate allowing people to marry whoever they want or whoever they love regardless of that person's sex.
Our second argument is about the legal benefits to same sex couples.
In america, I know, you're only allowed to visit someone in the hospital if you're a close relative.
So brother, sister, son, father, husband or wife.
So before gay marriage was passed here many times you would have a person's long term partner, someone they had been with for thirty years, who wasn't able to go visit them in the hospital because they technically weren't a close relative.
This is just one example of the types of legal discrimination that gay people face if they aren't able to marry.
We see that because the law privileges marriage over other types of relationship through things like legal privileges and tax status, that we have to allow these benefits to accrue to people attracted to the same sex as well as those who are attracted to the opposite sex.
Otherwise legal discrimination against those groups percolates through every layer of society, which we think is fundamentally unacceptable, especially in liberal countries like germany.
Our third and final argument is that it is good for your country or your area in the long term to legalize same sex marriage.
We see that many areas in the united states which legalized same sex marriage early on and which gained a reputation for being tolerant, saw an influx of highly talented workers.
Many people move to cities like boston, where which was the first major american city that had gay marriage, because they saw that it was somewhere that was more accepting of their lifestyle.
Where people were more likely to treat them as equals than other parts of the country where they were denied access to certain legal protections and the right to marry.
In the same way areas like san francisco that have historically been associated with tolerance for homosexuals have also seen that people move there because of this tolerance.
So it becomes a pull factor that brings in qualified hardworking people from around your country or around the globe even if you legalize same sex marriage.
So this ultimately is beneficial to the whole community, not just the people who want to have these types of marriage.
For these reasons we should legalize same sex marriage.
Thank you.