Physical education should be mandatory.
So, by physical education we mean things like gym classes in primary and secondary school.
So, with this in mind, we have three arguments for why this should be the case.
The first is about the good of the child.
We think that education in general is conducted for the benefit of young people.
It's probably the case that most ten year olds don't want to be studying arithmetic or shakespeare, but we make them do it anyway, because we recognize that it's for their own good.
There's an ancient philosophical maxim, sound mind in a sound body.
We think that it's not enough to fill children's head with knowledge and civic skills.
We think that we also need to provide them with the ability to have good health in the future, and also to be useful citizens.
In terms of health, it's obviously going to be to the benefit of children to provide them with a healthier body so that they will be better off into old age.
If people are physically fit as young people, it's much more likely that they'll be physically fit as they grow older.
And we see that for instance, who exercised more when they're younger, are less at risk of debilitating diseases like obesity and diabetes.
So ultimately it's in these children's interest that we put them through physical education.
But we think that another important part of physical education is sport.
And that by playing sports, young people learn important skills such as teamwork and how to accomplish a common goal.
Or even if they play individual sports, they still learn the value of discipline, and hard work in a way that they wouldn't necessarily learn in the classroom.
So we see that it's clearly in the good of individual children to require physical education.
And for that reason, the state should make it mandatory, so that all of them have equal access.
Because, when something is required, ultimately everyone has access to that thing.
Our second argument is about why there's a compelling state interest in physical education.
So, recognize that in countries with conscription like the republic of china or israel, the ability of the state to have useful conscripts is dependent on the physical fitness of people graduating from school every year.
If you have lots and lots of eighteen year olds who are graduating from secondary education and they can't run a mile in eight minutes, much less run a mile in six minutes carrying a bunch of equipment, then we think that at the end of the day they're not going to be particularly useful in a military operation.
What that means is that much of their time in conscription it's going to be wasted on physical conditioning, when that could have all been done while they were in school.
But on top of that, citizens who are healthier are less likely to have health problems in the future.
Which means that the burden on the state health care regimes such as national health in britain or medicare and medicaid in the united states, is going to be lower because people will have fewer health problems overall both in youth and in old age.
We think that because of this clear financial interest, the state should intervene to encourage people to be healthy at a younger age.
Our third and final point is that we think that people will be better employees if they go through this physical education.
Many jobs, particularly for people who don't go on to higher education, require some base level of physical fitness.
It's true that you don't have to be arnold schwarzenegger to work stock at a clothing store, but you do have to be able to lift a 50 pound box overr your head, which is something that unfortunately many young people don't have the physical fitness to do right now because they don't go through this physical training in school.
So we see that people are missing out on employment opportunities.
And many better jobs such as manufacturing et cetera, require a basic level of physical conditioning.
The only way to guarantee that everyone has that level of physical conditioning is through physical education in schools.
So at the end of the day, we see that young people will be more valuable to employers, which ultimately will lead to economic growth, and also allow them to provide a better lives for themselves and their families as a result of this.
So because it's to the benefit of every child and it's part of their education, because the government has a clear interest in having useful soldiers and healthy citizens, and because it makes these people better employees, we think that physical education should be mandatory.
Thank you.