The united states should not abolish the electoral college.
We think that the current system as it exists in the status quo ought to be continued in the future for two reasons.
The first is that the american democracy is very robust and successful already and that if something isn't broken we ought not change it.
The united states has had more peaceful transitions of power than any other democratic country in the world as far as I'm aware.
We've had one civil war, to be sure, but ultimately, over the last two hundred and some odd years, the country has proven very robust using the existing system for electing the president.
At that point, we don't think that the system should be changed, especially when many other countries which use a popular vote system have had fewer transitions of power peacefully or have been much more prone to civil conflict due to their electoral systems.
So at the point where the united states has proven able to select a president who is broadly palatable to most of the american people, using the electoral college, it seems foolish to abolish it.
Rachel points out many flaws in the system such as that it isn't perfectly allocated according to popular will, but we think that, actually, the electoral college does a really good job of balancing popular will with regional representation.
On the one hand, states are allocated seats primarily according to their population.
You get two votes automatically in the electoral college, and any subsequent votes are based on population.
So california has over fifty votes because so many people live there.
What this means is that ultimately, we balance the interests of small and populous states.
Now you might say who cares about these small states like wyoming, as rachel does.
But ultimately, the united states is a federal republic, and that means that we have to consider the wishes of every member of the federation because they're all equal states, and legally speaking, the united states' sovereignty is derived from the collective sovereignty of all of the fifty states.
So we can't just ignore some of them, like wyoming, even if they have very small populations.
Now, rachel's correct that wyoming has a smaller population than most large american cities, but that doesn't change the fact that it has equal sovereignty with california, which has sixty times more people.
So that's a facet of our legal system, but because the current system has produced so much stability and prosperity and is still generally democratic, we don't think it ought be abandoned.
You're throwing out the baby with the bath water if you get rid of the electoral college.
And this leads nicely into my next point which is that the replacement system would not be better.
I don't know why rachel thinks that the american government would come up with a fair and representative system to replace the electoral college.
Remember that this is a country where almost every representative is elected from gerrymandered districts which are deliberately drawn to negate the ability of people to actually control who their representative is.
So at the point where our lawmakers are elected by gerrymandered districts and have a vested interest in preventing the american people from having a lot of control over elections, there's no reason to assume that they wouldn't come up with some ridiculous and unfair method of selecting the president.
Perhaps they would have the president be elected by the house of representatives and the senate rather like how prime ministers are selected in countries like france.
But this would just transfer power farther away from the people and make gerrymandering effective at the presidency as well as in other respects.
Or perhaps they would come up with some system whereby it was based entirely on popular will, and people from most of the country would have no input at all.
Perhaps they would come up with a system that made it even easier to prevent minorities from voting and having their vote counted.
It's difficult to argue the alternative would be better given that the people who would be designing the alternative are corrupt and don't have the best interest of the american people at heart.
So for all these reasons, we should not abolish the electoral college.
Thank you.