We should lower the age of consent.
So by this we mean that in jurisdictions where it's not already the case we think that the age of consent should be sixteen years old for men and women and that there should be romeo and juliet laws.
So these are laws which basically say that if two people are under the age of consent, then it's legal for them to have sex with one another even if it wouldn't be legal for them to have sex with an adult.
And basically these laws are designed to prevent, you know, teenagers who are in a relationship from accidentally ending up on the sex offender registry for something that was completely consensual and probably shouldn't be illegal.
So with that in mind we're going to present two arguments for why we think these would be good policies.
The first is basically that kids will be kids.
We think that ultimately no one is being harmed if two people who are not adults yet choose to engage in consensual sexual activity.
We think that in many jurisdictions right now the punishments are extremely harsh.
In many american states people can end up on a sex offenders list, where for the rest of their life it's going to be difficult for them to get employed.
They won't be able to join the military, they won't be able to access some sorts of education, they're gonna have to tell their neighbors that they're a sex offender until the day that they die.
And this is obviously a system that was designed to go after perverts and people who are doing really awful things not sixteen year olds who hooked up after prom one night.
So we think that the law isn't actually serving the purpose it was intended to create.
We think that it's really important that we don't let the letter of the law get in the way of protecting and helping people.
So obviously we want to protect minors from being taken advantage of by adults, but we also want to recognize that people who are sixteen are probably able to consent to being in a relationship and having sexual intercourse with one another and doing that in a responsible way, particularly if we offer things like sex education in schools.
So we think that at that point the best way that the law can help these people is to make it so that there is these romeo and juliet laws so that people can engage in sex with their peers while still protecting them if they're taken advantage of by someone older.
And also by recognizing that sixteen year olds are probably able to make meaningful consent.
Which leads nicely into my second point, which is about legal consistency.
So in many american states people are able to get married at age sixteen.
You can join the military with your parents consent at age sixteen.
You can drive a car at age sixteen.
We think that all of these are probably bigger decisions than choosing to have sex.
So at that point we think that the law should be consistent.
Basically, if people are being given a high amount of authority to make decisions about their own lives, we think that those decisions should be free for them to make across the board.
I don't see why someone who is emotionally and physically mature enough to drive a car or serve in the nation's military shouldn't also be allowed to engage in a consensual sexual relationship.
It just seems that if the government is saying that that person's judgment is good enough for one, it should clearly be good enough for the other.
We think that the possibility for a third party harms or great personal risk from people choosing to have consensual sex is much lower, honestly, than driving much less getting married or serving in the military.
So we think that at that point that the government should be consistent and lower the age of consent to sixteen across the board.
And the other team might say well, it's only in america that people can do these things when they're so young.
But we still think that it's clear that sixteen year olds in different countries around the world probably have similar levels of emotional maturity.
What might be the case is that there's not enough sexual education in some parts of the world for young people to fully understand things like STDs or the risk of pregnancy and how to use contraception.
But we think that in that case it would be better to facilitate access to that information and access to contraception rather than just to ban any sort of sexual activity.
Because we don't think that's ever going to be effective.
There's no way to stop young people from having sex and the law should take that into account.
And even if it might be preferable for some people's, you know, moral or religious beliefs that young people didn't have sex at the point where they will the law should be pragmatic and acknowledge that and try to protect young people from unforeseen legal consequences like ending up on a sex offender registry and to provide information and contraceptives and things like that so that they can be safe.
So for these reasons we would lower the age of consent.