We should adopt to vegetarianism.
So, this is a debate saying that individual people have an obligation to become vegetarians, to swear off eating meat, and other animal products.
So with that in mind, we have two main arguments for you: the first is about the rights of animals.
We're going to tell you that, animals are worthy of moral consideration, and that it is unethical to eat them for this reason.
Recognize that, any moral distinction between animals and humans will always be arbitrary.
Many people might say that humans deserve more consideration than animals, because they're more intelligent, but this clearly isn't always true.
We see that, an adult dolphin, for instance, is much more able than a baby human to make certain decisions.
The other side might retort that, no one eats dolphins, but the point is that we do eat animals that are very intelligent, like octopus, and that on top of that, all animals clearly would prefer not to be in pain, rather than to be in pain.
We think that, this is indicative of some level of intelligence, and that we ought to respect these wishes.
In the same way that we don't force people to do things, that make them uncomfortable whenever possible, we view those as moral harms, we ought not force animals to do these things.
And recognize that, it's not just the act of eating the animal that causes so much suffering.
We think that, you know oftentimes it's possible to kill an animal painlessly, so they don't understand what's going on.
But the industry that supports the creation of meat, for our consumption, is deeply unethical.
We see that, you have chickens who were born into tiny cages, that are barely larger than they are, and then kept in dark buildings for their entire lives.
They grow so fat, that they can't walk around, and that are pumped full of chemicals, which prevent them from developing in a normal way.
We think that, it's extremely troubling that society is completely willing to overlook the horrifying, frankly, treatment of animals in the meat industry, in order to continue to satisfy a basic human instinct to eat meat.
We think that, people have an obligation to overcome these baser instincts, in order to respect the moral considerations of others, even if those others have hooves or feathers.
So because animals are deserving of moral consideration, because they're living things with preferences, we should become vegetarians, rather than continue to exploit them.
Our second argument, even if you don't care about animals, is about the environment, and I think it's clear that if you care about human beings as moral actors, that you'll care about this.
Realize that, the production of meat is tremendously resource intensive.
If you imagine a big pyramid, and let's say that there's a million calories worth of corn at the bottom of the pyramid, so, corn plants produce a million calories worth of food.
Every time you go up a level of the food chain, ninety percent of those calories are lost.
So, we go from a million levels at the bottom, to a hundred thousand calories, at the next level, at the cow level, to ten thousand calories at the human level.
That's all humans are receiving is ten thousand, because ninety percent of the calories are lost at every level, because digestion is inefficient, and because animals and plants consume a certain amount of calories as you move up the food chain.
So what we see is that, whereas you could feed ten times as many people, with an acre of land producing corn for human consumption, you feed only one tenth as many, if an acre of land is devoted to corn for cattle's consumption.
So ultimately, we think that in a world where people are starving, in a world where too much land is devoted to agriculture, and it's destroying our environment, that it is deeply unethical for posterity, and for people starving right now, to eat meat.
But, we also see that the environmental degradation, caused by the monoculture of corn and crops used to feed the livestock, is deeply devastating for the environment, and is causing irreversible damage, which means that future people, who we think deserve equal consideration with current people, are going to live in a worse environment, so that we can eat chicken nuggets.
For these reasons, we should adopt vegetarianism.
Thank you.