We should increase racial profiling in the united states at airports.
So in this debate what we're arguing is that whereas right now the TSA, the security group at airports, often denies that they use racial profiling, or is forced to search people they don't want to search to avoid the appearance of racial profiling.
We should allow them instead to just openly racially profile people.
A few reasons why we think this is the case.
First of all safety.
Recognize that the reason why we have groups like the TSA in the first place is to promote airport security and to prevent another nine eleven attack from happening.
At the point where we know that the people most likely to carry out massive terrorist attacks are people from groups like al-qaeda, and at the point where those groups recruit primarily among certain populations of a given race, we think that since we're going after al-qaeda we should target the people most likely to be al-qaeda members.
Now some people might say that this is contrary to the principle that you can't discriminate against people based on their race, but we think that ultimately the trade off in terms of safety outweighs the harms to some people's individual freedom which is relatively modest.
We're not talking about like strip searching people and having cavity searches and things like that.
We're just talking about enhanced security for some individuals.
Our second argument is about fairness.
Now some people might say that it's unfair to profile one particular group.
But we think that what is being done right now is actually worse.
Because recognize that this profiling still goes on in the status quo to a great extent.
What happens in order to disguise it is that the TSA will stop one young apparently arab man at the airport and that in order to avoid charges of discrimination stop three old white women at the same airport.
We think that it's unfair to externalize these costs on to people who are very unlikely to be members of these terrorist groups and who have done nothing wrong in order to cover up this practice.
In either world racial profiling is going on.
The only question is: is it fair to punish other people in order to disguise this racial profiling?
We think that it would obviously be more fair to discriminate against fewer people, to make fewer people go through these procedures, and that therefore we should just allow explicit racial profiling at american airports.
Our third and final argument is that public will is in support of racial profiling.
Why is this important?
The united states derives its legitimacy is a government because it rests on the will of the people.
The american government is not a group of technocrats who decide what is best for the country, it is a group of representatives who are supposed to represent the interests of their constituents.
At the point where the united states is something like sixty five percent caucasian and overwhelmingly christian, probably over eighty percent, we think it's almost certain that a large majority of the country supports racial profiling against people of middle eastern background.
We think that at that point the united states must follow the will of the people, even if it has ends that are morally intolerable to some individuals.
Recognize that in the past the US has carried out lots of unpopular policies that were technically legal because of public support.
We think that we need to continue to do so now.
And if these policies are actually country to the constitution, then we should have supreme court rulings in place that prevent it from happening again.
In the meantime though, it's not up to the executive branch or individual legislators to decide what is in the best interest of the american people when they've made their own wishes fairly clear.
We think that in order for the american government to maintain its legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens it needs to implement popular, well-liked policies such as racial profiling at airports.
So ultimately, because racial profiling is going to go on either way, we think that it would be more fair to use it explicitly, and we think that the american government's legitimacy relies on public support and so therefore the policy should be implemented.
Thank you.