We should abolish the US electoral college.
So for those who don't know, the american president is not elected by the american people.
Instead, the american people vote for representatives to go from their state to a group called the electoral college, who then select the president amongst themselves.
We have a few reasons why we think this practice should be abolished and replaced with a nationwide popular vote.
First, we tell you that the electoral college is fundamentally undemocratic.
Why is this so?
The way that seats are allocated in the electoral college is that every state gets one seat according to the number of representatives and senators they have.
This is a problem because every state gets two senators, and because the smaller states are still guaranteed at least one representative.
What that means is that each electoral college person in california represents hundreds of thousands of people whereas in wyoming, they likely only represent a couple tens of thousands of people.
Some people's votes count as much as five or six times more than other people's votes, and we think that this is fundamentally antithetical to the idea of liberal democracy.
We think that people in california deserve the same representation by the president as people in wyoming.
And recognize that because of the way the system is set up, people don't even campaign in many of the most populous states, like new york, texas and california.
Ultimately, they ignore those voters to instead focus on people who are disproportionately powerful because of the electoral college, like voters in iowa and ohio.
So those people have a huge amount of say and control over the president's policies and the future of the country relative to the vast majority of people, who live in safe states like california, that will always go to one particular party.
Our second argument is that we think the electoral college causes unnecessary conflict and degradation of democracy in the united states.
If you'll recall, in the two thousand election, george bush and al gore sued each other and ultimately, the new president was selected by the supreme court rather than any elected body.
The reason why this is so was that the electoral college is vague and its proceedings don't make any sense.
States allocate their electors according to a winner-takes-all principle, which means that a difference of two hundred votes in florida, which is a rounding error in a state of twenty million people, ultimately decided the presidential election.
At that point, it's up to courts to recount votes if they're challenged by the candidates and ultimately, you lead to months-long, very expensive recount processes that wouldn't need to take place in the event of a popular vote, because no president has ever won the national popular vote by two hundred votes, but that often happens in given states.
But not only does it create conflict in that sense, it also creates conflict in the sense that many people living in larger states are resentful and are more willing to back politicians in other sectors, such as the senate and house of representatives, who will represent their interests at the expense of the nation, because they don't feel represented by the president.
So we think this undermines cooperation and also the perception of fairness in american democracy, and that this is very likely one reason why the US has chronically low voter turnout.
The final reason we should abolish the electoral college, and this seems so obvious that I'm shocked that such intelligent men as james madison let the system go into effect, is that it allows for ties.
Right now, if the electoral college is tied, then the senate, I believe, breaks the vote, not important who, someone in the legislature.
But why would you have a system for choosing the president that allows for ties?
You don't allow even numbers of people on corporate boards, you don't have an even number of judges on things like american idol.
It just seems tremendously foolish to allow such an ineffective metric for choosing the president.
And the other team may say that ties are unlikely, but they're certainly not impossible, especially given that some states always vote in a particular direction.
We think that this shortcoming alone should be enough reason to get rid of the electoral college.
For these reasons, it should be abolished.
Thank you.