We should ban fraternities.
By this we mean to say that american colleges and universities should ban fraternities and sororities.
These are single-sex social clubs which usually own houses on a university campus, where their members live, which host kind of raucous parties and other social events for their members and their friends, and which generally serve as the main social focus on campus.
We have a few reasons why we think these fraternities should be banned, by which we mean they should be shut down by their universities and have their houses taken away.
First, fraternities are by their very nature exclusive.
They're almost all open to only people of one sex, and many of them exclude transgender people and intersex people.
Defenders of fraternities will point out that some have recently become multigender or more accepting, but this doesn't really change the problem.
These fraternities have a limited number of spots and they recruit people based on how much they appeal socially to the existing members, which means that because these fraternities were founded as drinking clubs for rich white boys, they're going to remain drinking clubs for rich white boys.
Maybe now they let in one or two asians or jews but that doesn't really change their very nature.
These go back to very exclusive, racist clubs designed to perpetuate the old american elite in the early twentieth century.
And even if not all fraternities act that way, all fraternities are modeled on groups that exist to this end, and we don't think that they should be allowed to continue to do so.
In particular, as we begin to encourage more inclusivity and less racism and less biased behavior, basically, on college campuses, it's contradictory to let organizations that exist to promote bias remain, organizations that entrench bullying through hazing in their selection processes.
Our second argument is that fraternities promote a bad culture on college campuses.
I already mentioned hazing and bullying.
The fraternity selection process, by its very nature, strips people of many of their essential characteristics, and then judges them based on how much they appeal to the people who are already members.
Essentially, the popular kids choose who gets to be a member of their club.
So bullying is baked into the system but what's more, because they choose who can and can't come to their parties, they effectively control access to alcohol for underage drinkers on campus.
Fraternities use this control over alcohol to lure young women to their houses, get them drunk, and then take advantage of them sexually.
This is why there are so many rape and sexual assault charges associated with fraternities.
Some studies indicate that being a member of a fraternity indicates that someone is twice as likely to commit sexual assault as not being a member of a fraternity.
So we think that it's clear that because they're encouraging bullying and much worse, because they're encouraging sexual assault, that they should be banned.
The increased rates of rape and sexual assault that happen because of fraternities are enough reason in themselves to ban these organizations, and nothing the other side says about how they create brotherhood or encourage volunteer work is going to outweigh this.
And our final point is that fraternities and sororities hinder learning on campus.
Universities exists to educate young citizens, but because fraternities often encourage their members to drink all the time instead of do work, because they help their members to cheat in order to get through school without actually learning, we think that they actually undermine the educational goals of the university.
Many fraternities do things like save old versions of exams so that their members can study them or get answers to questions from members who are older than them in the fraternity, which lets people skirt around having to do actual work and actually learn, so that they have more time to drink cheap beer and try to knock up freshman girls.
So because they prevent learning, because of the extremely harmful culture that they create, and because they're so exclusive, we should ban fraternities.
Thank you.