We should not disband ASEAN.
So, ASEAN is the association of southeast asian states.
As the last speaker pointed out to you, it's made up of a group of states in southeast asia who are working together towards common goals of development.
Three reasons why we should not disband it.
First is about anti-colonialism.
Recognize that for developing countries like the ones in ASEAN like malaysia, like indonesia, they have a few alternatives for who they can turn to as trade partners.
You have major international trading countries like the states, like china, like EU countries, which historically have treated these countries in a very colonialist way.
Most of the countries in ASEAN except for thailand were once colonized by european countries or the united states, and if you look back before that, they had a semi colonial relationship with china in many instances, such the relationship between vietnam and china.
So we see that there's a history of abuse and mistreatment between these larger countries around the world the more powerful countries, and the ASEAN countries.
We think that by working together, the ASEAN countries can ensure that they are a large enough economic bloc to prevent these major international powers who have historically come in and pushed them around, from dominating the region, in other words, ASEAN makes all of these countries that together are strong and able to resist imperialist aggression or trade policy, and would all individually not be that powerful.
It allows them to work together towards a common goal of independence and it reassures the independence of every member state from international oppression and dependence on one country for trade.
Our second argument, is about why we think that fundamentally ASEAN increases development and that's the highest good in this round.
So first, why is development the most important good?
If you think about the quality of life in ASEAN countries, obviously it varies.
People in malaysia for instance have like a middle income quality of life, people in vietnam are much poorer, but we think that overall everyone in all of these countries could still benefit from more development.
We think that there is a moral imperative for states to seek out development for their citizens.
Why is this so?
So when we say a moral imperative we mean that states always have an obligation to seek this out.
We think that because, any person would always choose to live in the most developed country possible so that they have the highest quality of life, those with the ability to do so, those who reap the benefits of developed life, because they're elites, should try to provide it to everyone else.
To sort of do unto others as you would have them do unto you type of thinking.
We see that, development is more likely with ASEAN.
One, because countries have more access to trade partners and trade goods, so it's more like that they're able to specialize and develop industries that can then take advantage of other markets within ASEAN, and two, because of the access to economic development expertise.
Recognize that many countries in ASEAN, are at different levels of development.
Malaysia is pretty far along, some other countries are not as far along.
So we tell you that people in ASEAN countries can study in other countries and learn about development and industry, and how other countries have been successful in the past, and use this in order to help their own home country.
So at the end of the day, we help the people who are worse off in the world, some of them, some of these very poor people who live in ASEAN countries because we better access development so we shouldn't disband ASEAN.
Our last argument is about peace in the region.
Recognize that there are many potential sources of conflict within the southeast asia region.
Some countries are more closely aligned with china so they see an advantage in china becoming more hegemonic, some countries are more aligned with the united states.
Some countries are communists, some countries are capitalist.
There's been conflict in the past over east timor, and there are other ethnic tensions boiling beneath the surface in many southeast asian countries.
But one of the surest ways to prevent international conflict, is to tie everyone's interests together through trade.
If everyone stands to get richer through peace and poorer through conflict, then it's much less likely that a war will break out in the region.
So for that reason we think ASEAN is a tremendous tool for peace in southeast asia in the future.
So because it's an anti colonial institution, because it promotes development, and because it will lead to peace in the region, we should not disband ASEAN thank you.