We should not legalize polygamy.
We're going to argue first, that it would be preferable to do away with the institution of marriage entirely rather than to expand it to include polygamy and polyamory, and secondly, that even if you want to maintain the institution of marriage that this doesn't make good legal sense.
So we tell you that ultimately it would simply be preferable to do away with marriage rather than to expand it in this way.
Why?
Marriage is an institution that is founded primarily on coercion.
The history of marriage is essentially that it's important for men to be able to control women in order to assert their own reproductive worth.
To be sure that their children are legitimate.
So marriage as an institution has this kind of sordid history which we think is a good reason to begin questioning it, but that's not enough to ban it in itself.
The reason why it ought be banned is that ultimately marriage preferences, certain lifestyles over others even if you expand it to include polygamy.
At the end of the day, marriage essentially is a government sanctioning for one particular lifestyle.
This may be expanded to include slightly more people as we've seen recently with the legalization of same sex marriage in the US and britain, but ultimately we tell you that it still prioritizes people having long term relationships over short term ones, living with their partner over not cohabitating, and otherwise makes normative judgments about how people ought to live their life.
Tim told you in the last speech that the state should not be in the business of telling people what is right and wrong and how to live their lives when they don't hurt other people.
But by giving legal privileges to people who are married, such as tax breaks, next of kin status, the ability to live together in some countries, etcetera, ultimately you are effectively prioritizing one lifestyle over another.
And we think that this should fundamentally be done away with rather than expanded.
Marriage doesn't become any less problematic just because you include gay people or polygamous people, you're just changing the group of people who are an out group.
At the end of the day, we think that in a world where you banned marriage, people would still be able to claim one another on their taxes, it would just work differently.
People would still be able to get married in the church if they want to, something that's unlikely to be expanded either way.
So if people want marriage for social reasons they can go out and have that without state recognition and we're fine with that.
We just don't think that it's good practice for the state to condone this behavior because implicitly when you do so, you condemn other harmless behavior.
Our second argument is that polygamous marriage doesn't really make sense from a legal perspective.
Realize that from the state's perspective marriage is a contract between two people.
At the end of the day, it's about being able to write someone off on your taxes, it's about being their next of kin, it's about being allowed to share credit cards and other financial vehicles.
The state doesn't really care if you love one another or how you spend your time all it does is allow you to act as a sort of joint person from a legal perspective in certain instances.
All of this kind of works when it's between two people, but at the end of the day this starts to break down when we have larger polygamous relationships.
If you have five people living together and you're allowed to claim them all on your taxes this could allow even very wealthy people to write off almost all of their income because of how the US tax code works.
And there are similar benefits to larger family size in other countries.
I'm not claiming that people are going to run out and have polygamous marriages in order to save money, only to say that existing laws would break down if you allow polygamous marriages.
The tax code and other laws relating to marriage simply weren't designed with this in mind.
The other team is going to say, oh well then change them.
But at that point if we're overhauling huge parts of the legal system, why not go one step further and get rid of this entirely and just allow people to decide if they want to let someone else claim them on their taxes without requiring this archaic institution with its sexist and ultimately problematic roots to continue.
For all these reasons we should not legalize polygamy.
Thank you.