We should ban boxing.
So, what we mean by this is that we think that countries which have strong regulatory agencies for sport ought to ban boxing.
Nothing tricky about what boxing is, you know it's what mike tyson and all these people have done.
So, three main arguments for you: the first is about why we think the government needs to intervene.
We think that the state should ban a certain behavior when there is a lack of information available for one group participating in that behavior.
So, in this instance we think that boxers lack information about boxing that would allow them to make intelligent decisions.
Realize that the companies that promote boxing make a great deal of money off of people being willing to participate in this activity.
What that means that you have lots of businessmen who are interested in convincing young people that it's perfectly safe to box, that there's absolutely no risk to their long term health and that they'll make lots of money and get famous by choosing to do this.
None of which is really true.
There are tremendous risks from concussions, as we've seen with not only boxers but also other athletes, that have a long term health implications, and in addition most people never go on to become successful boxers.
We think that at the end of the day, the health risks greatly outweigh the vast wealth that someone like mike tyson might be able to accrue because of boxing.
So we think the state should intervene to protect the boxers who lack access to good information about boxing.
The second argument that we're going to advance in this debate is about why we think that boxing promotes violence.
So, it seems pretty intuitive that a violent sport would encourage young people to view violence more positively than they would otherwise.
Realize that when young people grow up lionizing boxers, they're lionizing people who hit each other to solve their problems in effect.
We think that at the point where we wouldn't accept school children hitting each other or behaving in this fashion we shouldn't encourage it on the public stage either.
Lionizing an activity normalizes the behavior in society.
It's not just that, you know, impressionable children are going to fight more if they look up to mike tyson, it's also that a culture which features boxing as a sport that's widely admired is more likely to admire violence writ large.
We think that for instance the lionization of soldiers, the lionization of police and of violence in general is much more likely in a society that celebrates violent sport.
We would prefer a world in which violence was seen as an unfortunate necessity when it does have to occur, rather than something which is to be celebrated and glorified, and we think that boxing is incompatible with that view of the world.
But certainly, a world like that would have less violence, fewer people suffering from violence than the world that we live in today.
The last argument that we're going to advance for you in this debate is that we think boxing is harmful for sporting culture.
Recognize that boxing, which promotes these very high stakes fights between two people, I think that the fight between floyd mayweather and manny pacquiao was one of the most expensive paper view events of all time.
Boxing encourages sporting culture to focus on one major event rather than on achievement over time.
We think that people are less likely to look at careers of excellence in other sport as something to celebrate as a result of boxing's prominence, because they're more likely to focus on one match, or in this case one fight.
But on top of that we think that because boxing is such a friendly sport to gambling and betting, that it introduces more gambling and that because boxers are notorious for throwing fights in order to win money, that this introduces more corruption into the sporting world in general.
We would prefer that people focus on team sports, which promote good values as opposed to boxing, and in addition we would prefer that they focus on sports with less gambling and which are less prone to corruption.
So at the end of the day we should ban boxing because of this lack of information for boxers, because it promotes violence and because it harm sporting culture.
Thank you.