When will argues against cosmetic surgery, what he doesn't seem to understand is that societal standards are going to exist on both sides of the house and will get met either way.
If I'm not spending that money on changing my waist cosmetically I am wearing a binder or a corset that is a lot more physically damaging to me, oftentimes cost just as much, and I am still meeting the same beauty stereotypes.
Women who have too much money for their own good and hate their bodies are going to find a way to satisfy those standards regardless.
What this round is about is whether or not they ought be able to choose the method by which they do so and whether paternalism is justified.
We tell you that we prefer a safer way but more than that that it is still a woman's right to model herself in the male gaze even if it is something that is bad for society writ large.
We think this is about the individual woman's choice and what empowers her not about societal reaction.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on the standards of a ban.
It is generally accepted that a democratic government can ban something if there is either a large personal harm that requires paternalism or if large third party harm that allows you to paternalize an individual's choices.
Will says but society and the reinforcement of stereotypes.
The problem with this is that as we told you, these beauty standards are already there.
At most, there is a marginal reinforcement when the top one percent meets them with cosmetic surgery.
We think the vast majority of people are still not doing it in order to look the way the men want or they like if only because they simply do not have the money to do so.
On a personal level, will did not address any problems and we tell you that this is because there aren't any.
Complications are rare but the esteem boost that women who make these decisions get is very real.
It's not a harm but rather a benefit to take a feature that you have disliked your entire life and turn it into something that is pleasurable and that empowers you.
But then will says it's such a useless expenditure.
All we say to this is that you ought allow an individual to decide what is a useless expenditure.
This is honestly a very dumb argument given that even in the example of a handbag, most of that money still goes to a corporation.
Moreover, who cares?
We recognize that money is the property of an individual and do not paternalize the way in which it is spent because the standards for what is a useful expenditure versus not differs depending on who is looking at the expenditure.
For some, paying for a pet is a useless expenditure given that that pet is not utile to them but for others, it is a very good expenditure because they gain a lot from having that pet.
Cosmetic surgery is no different.
Are second area of clash has to do with cosmetic surgery as a form of empowerment.
We think it is difficult to feel powerful if you're not feeling physically empowered and so it is good to allow women and men to empower themselves in a way that is safe and legal and within their own like power right?
Like we think that it is good that if they hate a future for the majority of their lives they can do something that will fix it and then not hate hate themselves as much or feel more confident in the bedroom.
We think that even if it is like marginally problematic that women get get get like adjustments to their labia because they're told that long labias are bad, we think you still net positive that they then feel more confident in the bedroom and more confident with their own bodies so that they can actually be intimate with another person.
More than this, we tell you it's not always beauty standard based.
Sometimes it has to do with the way that someone feels their face is asymmetrical or in situations of trans-individuals, where they want to appear more like the gender with which they identify.
We think at the point that cosmetic surgery represents very real ways by which individuals can make themselves feel better and empower themselves to be more productive and happier individuals in the long term you ought not ban it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.