When it comes to covenant marriages, it's unclear why we need the government to recognize it, given that individuals and communities can still recognize it personally.
Drew never points out why there are specific benefits to the government recognizing these marriages as well, except to say that it is more easily regulatable, and I'll tell you why he's wrong about that later.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why these kinds of marriages trap people, and often especially women, in marriages that might not be happy in the long term.
Recognize first, that even though people might get extensive counseling before entering a marriage, they might think that they know these people so well, it is often not the case that you can predict everything that will occur in your future.
No one gets married thinking that it will end in divorce.
The reason, that we do not put up extra barriers to divorce, is because we recognize that these kinds of that people change, and that and that we have to let them escape and change themselves, as their relationships change as well.
Drew is so worried about freedom, but he decreases it by making these assumptions.
He says that people who enter are going to be so consenting, but we don't think this is true.
We think these individuals usually grow up in these communities, and are pressured to participate, and more than this are often not provided with another option.
It is only after you are an adult, that you can actually be able to explore the rest of the world around you, and recognize what your real decisions meant, or what you have signed yourself up for.
So, a lot of the time these people get married quite young, around eighteen to twenty, and it's not until later in their lives, that they recognize what they gave up, or have more access to the outside world.
So, we think that when you do things, like recognize covenant marriage by the state, you are not only allowing these people to be pressured by their communities to maintain an unhappy marriage, but also allowing the state to put pressure on them as well, and preventing the state from interfering in the situations, because it recognizes this covenant as legal.
We think women are especially susceptible to this, insofar as a lot of the time these communities place less value on female happiness, and force them into patriarchal roles in the house, and they're like often given the least choice over their futures.
So, we think that, at least on our side of the house, if someone decides that they're done, they can get state backing to escape the situation.
On their side, you make it so that the government can no longer interfere in these marriages, when someone says I am done, because it recognizes the covenant as legal, and forces them to continue through these difficulties.
Our second of clash has to do with why it gives even more power and control to religious communities.
We think that the church and the state ought be kept as separate as possible, because the state obligation ought to be to people, not to religious bodies.
And when you recognize covenant marriage, you secede more control over people's lives to religions.
We think this is problematic, because religion is often run by patriarchal, outdated, and sexist norms.
So, a lot of the time, in these kinds of religious covenants, not only are women being given away very young, not only are they like being told that things, oftentimes, that like birth control is immoral, they're not really given control over their own bodies, their pleasure is vilified, but now the state recognizes these acts as legal, and says: okay, like were all right with this, let religion take that control.
When drew says that it's easier to regulate, he's just wrong, because the only time, that this is regulatable at all, is when it's not legally recognized, because that recognition binds the state to specific action.
So in the status quo, if there is a covenant marriage, and someone says I'm done, and the religious community says no you're not, you agreed to this, then the state is obligated to say that the religious community is wrong, and side with the individual.
But on their side of the house, what occurs is that because the state has recognized this, they must allow the church to go on with its proceedings.
Drew pretends these proceedings are no big deal, but recognize that you can draw out counselling infinitely.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.