Internet centrist censorship should definitely not be increased.
First to clarify the round we think that it's fine if individual forms in their sub laws say we will remove language that is hate speech language that is bullying this is what we do not tolerate in our forums.
We think what this round deals with is specifically if the government is increasing internet censorship and using their power to censor what people on the internet are saying.
Two main areas of three main areas of clash first on free speech and why it's violation occurs.
We think that regardless of whether my speech is mean or derogatory unless I am calling to violence or actively higher harm I'm harming someone else it is protected.
This is because speech is a away by which individuals actualize themselves and communicate themselves to the world.
Silencing them essentially means erasing their existence given that if no one knows my thoughts my feelings or my emotions then they cannot validate that I exist in the world and have rights.
So it is the same thing as me not being there.
More than this though we think that a lot of the time the speech that one person might consider to be mean or an attack is speech that is valued by others.
There is no universal standard by which we say this speech is valuable but this speech isn't because we think that when it currently metric by a standard the black lives matter movement often uses is they like to say fuck white people or insult white people as a race.
We think that this is probably acceptable given that this is in insinuation that talks about the like years of oppression that have occurred then is often used productively.
The problem is that the same people that when the opposite occurs when someone says fuck black people this is something that would be considered hate speech and rightfully so should probably not exist.
The issue is that it depends on who is in power.
Should you have a republican or a bunch of white supremacists in power they're much more likely to say it is fuck white people that ought be erased and censored not the opposite that is okay.
So we think that in the end at the point that everyone is going to consider a different type of speech valuable and my speech is a way by which I relate to the world we think unless you're actively harming someone or calling to violence then that speech is protected.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think it lends more growth to dangerous ideologies when you censor them.
First we think that people use the internet as an outlet and because I can go on to this forum and yell all my racist thoughts I am much less likely to go into real life and shoot someone but also we think that the only way in which you can destroy these ideologies is by facing them head on and clashing with them.
Because if you can never point out the holes in a theory because you've banished it and not allowed it to enter the internet or the marketplace of ideas then the people who made it will still think they are right.
The only way in which you can truly beat it down is if you are able to tell the rest of the world why they are incorrect and keep them from gaining popularity and followings.
Our third area of clash has to do with why it's open to government abuse.
Sure in an ultimate world where liberals are in charge then at least me and fellow liberals are happy.
The problem is that the conservatives still aren't and we would say that this is still oppressive and abusive of other people who have valid ideas.
But recognize also that governments change over time.
We think in a world where trump very recently got elected and the majority of both the senate and the house are republicans it is very possible that the ultra right does gain power and they change the standards in which we see.
And suddenly the censorship isn't hate speech that I might consider hate speech and it isn't like the kinds of it isn't the kind of mean or bullying things that I might consider mean or bullying but it flips the other direction it becomes censorship of liberal ideologies and censorship of progressive movements and protests.
For these reasons proud to propose oppose.