We should not end cheerleading.
Recognize first and foremost that men will always objectify women.
All of drew's arguments work for banning literally any female sport insofar as men sexualize any female sport.
I think a really good example of this is tennis in which even though we recognize that the women there have worked incredibly hard and are like equal to their male athletes in terms of status, the way in which they are demeaned and viewed by society is very much in terms of the clothing that they wear and how attractive they are.
Recognize that the only actions we can control is our own and that whatever men do with our bodies or with the images of our bodies are separate from us insofar as we do not control their minds.
We also think it's incredibly problematic to say that because men are shitty, we ought change the behavior of women and have them have less of a community and less ability to choose their support.
If this was the logic that we followed, we think it would also follow that the response to islamophobia is to stop being be muslim, or the response to any kind of like discrimination, on any basis, means to stop identifying with that thing.
Insofar as women are always going to be women and they cannot control their bodies or the way that they are perceived, we think that they ought have as many rights as possible and that these rights ought not be limited based on the fact that men can't control themselves.
Two main areas of clash: the first as about cheerleading as a valid form of a of athletics and art.
Drew already concedes that cheerleading is a physically challenging activity, but it is also physically unique in that the actions that are that are taken during cheerleading are distinct from what you'd find in other sports, whether it be dance, which many consider to be quite similar, or like a true sport, such as football or soccer or basketball.
What this means is that it is valid to prefer the activity of cheerleading to another sport given that it is not the case that the actions are intermixable.
Like just just because basically what we're saying is that because someone could prefer the motions that are gone through in cheerleading to something else, it is not the place of the government or any one individual to say that you could do any other sport instead.
We think that people should have as many choices as possible because in the end, they know their own situation and what will help them self-actualize more than any other individual.
Recognize that drew's arguments are all for changing societal messages messaging.
We think that it would be preferable to tell football players to respect cheerleaders, maybe don't give them overly sexual costumes or motions.
All of these things are changeable without saying that without declaiming the entirety of the sport.
Second, though, we want to talk about cheerleading as a form of empowerment.
Because recognize that women get sexualized day to day, regardless of their consent into those systems.
It is more than this though, we are socialized into these systems in which we are told to accept the fact that men will sexualize us without our consent and without our participation.
We think that at the end of the day, you should provide many as many avenues as possible by which women can then reclaim their sexuality, and we think that cheerleading is an example of a sport that does that incredibly well.
We think that being able to give women a world in which they can define their own sexuality through their own motions, in which they can subvert their men's images of themselves, as one can with with cheerleading is really important.
And we think that if someone chooses to do cheerleading of their own volition for a long time, like recognize that I think neither side of the house supports children who are forced into cheerleading, but we think that this is true for any kind of sport.
Like my mother wouldn't let me quit dancing for a really, really long time, but that doesn't mean that I necessarily think that it was a bad like that we should stop dance altogether.
In the at the end, all our side advocates for is a world in which women can choose to do cheerleading, and that and we like we don't understand why the government should be able to prevent that.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.