We don't think that rejecting multiculturalism means rejecting all cultural differences between individuals.
Rather, we think that rejecting multiculturalism has to do with the way that we approach the macro expression of culture within a country.
So it's the difference between saying that this country does not have a single culture but rather is made up of multiple groups and multiple different cultures, versus saying that even though we might have people who are from different countries who have different cultural expressions, we as the united states, or we as australia or any country have one main culture that we identify as that ties us all together.
We think that you're always going to have people who are like culturally diverse.
It's about what you look at on the macro scale when we talk about multiculturalism or not.
With that, two main areas of clash.
The first on decreasing violence within your culture.
Because clashes and tensions are going to exist between cultures on both sides of the house, but it is worse when those groups are kept distinct and are told that they are different, are told to revel in that differentness and maintain that culture, rather than feeling like they have to assimilate.
Because rather than feeling like they are part of a greater whole, part of that country first, these groups instead feel alienated from other cultures and this creates more rise in tensions because there is no over arching identity that binds them together, but also makes it easier for a more dominant culture to destroy subcultures or force them into sub par living conditions.
Because there's less there's less pressure to assimilate less pressure to be accepting when your country is when your country feels that that there is no like main identity and rather multiple different ones.
So we think like in situations where you have small minority groups living in largely, it like within the middle of a larger like majority group, in the situations of multiculturalism and acceptance of multiculturalism you're going to have much more tension between them because you don't actually have something that binds them together beyond just being individuals.
So, we think that individual tensions grow when there is no mainstream culture to connect them.
So, my russian jewish family is much more likely to be hostile towards the like polish christians across the hallway because we aren't actually feeling like we are all americans, but are rather identifying each other by our ethnicities and by the harms that our ethnicities might have done to each other.
So like " those pol's killed a lot of jews during the holocaust. "
Are second area of clash has to do with creating a strong national identity and its importance.
Because what drew misunderstands is that a melting pot means bringing in parts of other people's cultures into the mainstream and celebrating those components.
Because it's always going to be impossible to celebrate every single culture in its entirety, so what we allow is for the mainstream and for the majority groups to experience minority culture and to bring it into the limelight while individual culture still exist.
So on the comparative, we think that dividing people by ethnicity means they choose their ethnic group above their own nation.
So I'm going to be a russian or a jew or a, I don't know, israeli before I'm going to be an american, even though I currently live or have citizenship in america.
We think this is both bad economically, because a lot of the time people make decisions off of what corporations to support based on the ethnicity rather than on the country.
So my dad will buy an israeli product before he buys an american one, just because he feel solidarity there.
But it's also bad for the service like that we pay to our own countries.
Right?
So a lot of the time, if you're encouraging multi culturalism, you're going to lose a lot of people who are returning to what they call the homeland, and so you lose their productivity.
Or a really good example is when american jews go and serve in the israeli military rather than the american ones.
We think this is something you have to accept when you're promoting multiculturalism.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.