Don't ban fraternities.
Three main areas of clash: first I want to talk about how a lot of the problems that will attributed to fraternities aren't actually endemic to them, and will continue even worse if you ban fraternities.
Recognize that the reasons that all of these issues are present at frat parties is because frat parties have become the dominant party supplier.
The only other get-togethers tend to be more personal invite only kind of situations, where necessarily the fact that you have less strangers and less people willing to report etcetera means there's going to be less sexual assault and less binge drinking etcetera.
These issues however, sexual assaults, over drinking, all of that are endemic to party culture not necessarily to frats.
As long as students demand parties all they do is displace these same harms onto smaller dis institutionalized parties.
The only solution for these kinds of situations is basically what colleges have already been employing which are heavy education campaigns that advocate for consent, bystander training, like all of these things that actually change the mindsets of individual people rather than just saying: " look, because we've banned this one institution everything is solved ".
We think the problem on their side of the house is that they're creating a false sense of solvency, in which people think the issue is gone because frats are now banned, when in reality it remains just as there and just as pertinent as ever.
We think currently when you have an institution you can watch, regulate and target them much easier.
You can warn people specifically about frat parties and how you can take care of yourself there.
You can offer them perks for calling ubers and specify trainings that are targeted towards them.
We prefer a centralized system because it's reliable and easy to regulate.
Insofar as schools are just infinitely like going to be watching frats a lot closer than other people, we think that they're going to be more capable of decreasing the harmful effects than if all of those same parties just became like, just became in different locations with different groups of individuals that they're not used to observing.
But our second area of clash is how it becomes more pernicious.
Yes, it's bad that frats are exclusionary and providing social networking only to those who can afford it, but rich people will always find a way to separate themselves through other means.
Recognize things like the finals clubs at harvard are literally just a response to the fact that frats and things like that were told to desegregate and be more inclusive and then they were like: " ha, guess what, we're just gonna create finals clubs that are institutionalized with all of your best donors so that we can get away with this ".
We think that these situations are even worse, because now they don't need university support to exist.
They essentially divested themselves from university infrastructure, rely on massive donors that the university doesn't want to piss off either, and it means that you can't actually have any sort of meaningful changing in terms of social norms or requiring better treatment or requiring bystander training.
We prefer frats because they're under over university oversight.
There is some level of influence there.
You can actually force some rules like party logging and making sure you know where all the parties are.
Things like that.
Our third area of clash is just why fraternities can be incredibly helpful and thus people ought be able to choose them.
Recognize that college is incredibly difficult, especially when you are first transitioning your freshman year.
Frats provide a meaningful community that help people through hard times.
And recognize that there's no objective way in which we adjust or go through this difficult time in our life.
Like there's no one way to go to college and make it.
Rather, every individual finds their own community and group of people, maybe they don't find anyone at all, that helps them through an incredibly difficult transitory period.
Some people use school clubs, others use frats.
But both of these are equally valid options and something the provides with a supportive community in times of need.
We think that everyone deserves that and we don't think that it's the job of universities to regulate it insofar as it takes those options away from students.
We also just think that like having somewhere where like maybe there is an institutional history of like your parents knew them, like there's more oversight.
It is really helpful for individuals who are away from home for the first time for a long period of time.
And also like insofar as they have to get their social networking somewhere, were unsure why any of these harms are unique.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.