The motion for today's debate is: this house would subsidize biofuels.
This house, being the united states government.
Two many areas of clash, the first on the importance of government subsidization.
We tell you that new technology is incredibly expensive, and on both an individual and corporate level.
What this means is that, in order to make a system change, especially a system as ingrained in oil and gas running cars, as the american economy, there needs to be an outside impetus that shows corporations that there is an investment, and shows individuals that they can still save money in the long term.
Let's explore these two layers separately.
Recognize that on a corporate level, corporations are generally risk averse.
What this means is that, they do not pour money into things that they do not feel will bring back money to the corporation.
We tell you that, corporations recognize america's dependency on oil, recognize that they themselves cannot permeate the market, and thus do not put money into innovating new kinds of biofuels, or new kinds of biofuel running cars.
Subsidizing subsidizing biofuels would also create a market for them.
What this means is now, on an individual level, people will feel like biofuel running cars are worth the long term investment, because recognize that, with new technology, it's likely that that car is going to be more expensive than the car they currently drive.
In order to justify giving in money for this new item, they also have to justify that, in the long term, it will be cheaper.
This is the same rationale we use when people buy a car that is more expensive, but they expect to last for longer.
They know that, even though they're showing more money out in the short term, in the long term, they will end up paying less.
We tell you that, the development of a market, by means of the consumer, signals to corporations that they can invest more freely, and pump out new ideas, and new innovations.
This brings us to our second area of clash, which has to do with the harms of the oil and gas industry.
Because besides the obvious environmental impacts of upping the amount of greenhouse gases, that cause global warming, and pollute our environment, there's also an economic dependency cost.
Recognize that, the majority of powers, that holds the monopoly over oil and gas, are middle eastern and non western.
What this means is that a country such as the united states have massive dependencies on middle eastern countries, that cause their economies to be dependent on how those function.
What this means is that, if in a given year, the middle eastern country cannot produce enough oil, or decides to raise the price in order to manipulate the market, the american economy goes with it.
This is very problematic, insofar as the whim of one of the leaders of these gas or oil industries can stop the stop up america's highways for days.
But there's a second layer to this.
We tell you one of the massive reasons that america doesn't sanction saudi arabia, but is willing to sanction other countries, such as israel, is because they are not they're more afraid of saudi arabia, and the control they have over the american economy, in the form of oil.
We tell you that, if america is able to produce its own fuels, and is unafraid of the manipulation of its economy, that saudi arabia and other middle eastern countries can cause, they are more likely to step up in situations of human rights abuses.
More than in this though, we tell you that subsidizing biofuels encourages innovation.
This is good on two levels: first, we can get benefits to the domestic economy, but it also helps in the global economy.
First, on the domestic economy.
We tell you that, showing that a market exists and investing in that market signals to corporations that it's time to innovate in this sphere, in order to make more money.
What this means is that, more different kinds of biofuels, different kinds of biofuel running cars, are more likely to be developed on our side of the house, insofar as they know that they can actually sell their products.
But recognize what this does on a global market as well.
If america is able to become one of the main global players in developing their own bio fuel, and bio fuel technology, they're able to sell this to other global powers.
Given that this is a newly developing market, and a few other countries have gotten very far, we tell you that becoming one of the first allows america to build their own niche market in the global economy.
For these reasons, proud to propose.