The biggest problem that gov has in this debate is that danny misunderstands what double jeopardy actually is.
What the legal definition connotes is that it is the same crime, with the same evidence, that a person is retried for.
What this means is that his entire first independent point that talks about what happens when the new evidence appears, when someone confesses, all of this falls through because with the addition of new evidence, with the addition of a confession, the crime can be appealed and the case can be reopened.
We think at the point that there are significant systems in place that allow for the appeals process, will allow for for people to come out and confess to their crimes, even after they have pled non-guilty and won, means that double jeopardy exists as a protection for innocence against the overreach of the judicial system.
We think that when it is most used is when is in attempts to layer punishments or wear someone who's innocent down, and that is what we are talking about in this debate.
We think that everything that danny talked about is completely irrelevant at the point that you can always appeal the situation when new evidence comes out.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the justice system and why we think preserving the finality of rulings is important.
We think that the purpose of the justice system and trial by jury is to evaluate guilt and innocence based on the people, based on how your peers see you.
What this means is that whether you are guilty or innocent isn't just a fact claim, but also depends on things like your situation and where you were at the time and small amounts of biases with how people perceive them.
For example, something that might be perceived as first-degree murder by some individuals can also be spun to look like something like self-defense for others.
This is why we think that it's important that when we stand by a standard of trial by your peers, you stand by it to the end.
You don't just get to switch out the peers at the end and try the trial over and over again until you get what you want as your result.
Rather, the first time is important unless something changes, because this is the standard our legal system has set.
We also think this protects against things like court clog and providing closure.
We think at the point that you could just retry every trial as many times as you want until you got a guilty verdict, you'd never stop retrying people.
Danny says, " oh, but we wouldn't want to do this ", but I think he misunderstands the incentives of the judicial system, elected judges, people who work for the DA's office.
They want convictions, and they want and they they oftentimes go to many ends to get them.
We think that people who have money and have been victimized by others are often willing to spend that money trying and retrying trials because they want closure.
All of these kinds of things are all reasons as to why you would go on and retry people and keep them in jail.
But more than this, we think that providing closure for victims, as well as perpetrators, is incredibly important.
We think that after that hearing that your trial is being retried all over again is an extra level of emotional suffering that someone just shouldn't have to go through more than once.
We think that when someone hears the guilty or not guilty verdict, this should be the end insofar as anything after that is just additional suffering and additional pain.
This works both for the victim, insofar as now they have to listen and go through reliving that reliving their damaged experiences over and over, but also for the person who was accused, insofar as they're if they are innocent, they also have to live through this again.
Second, though, we want to talk about protection of the innocents, because we think it's most important to keep those who are innocent out of jail insofar as imprisoning someone who's innocent is a rights violation on the part of the state, and it's always worse than not imprisoning someone who is not innocent, insofar as they have already committed their crime and no future rights violations are going to occur.
We think that allowing the court to have systems that let them retry innocents over and over again in order to wear them down, because the DA is so convinced that they are guilty that they will do anything regardless of the evidence, is a problem, because a lot of the time the DA or large corporations just have more money, and in order to stop being dragged into that courtroom, I will agree into anything.
We also think that allowing courts to layer punishments is also a problem insofar as you can try someone for the same crime over and over again and give them more and more years in jail.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.