The motion for today's debate is the united states should abolish the electoral college.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the true representation of people and what it means to be a democracy.
We tell you that at it's core, a democracy is about providing equal representation to all people living underneath that system.
Obviously the system isn't perfect.
It is impossible to get every single person living within the united states into one room to come to a consensus on policy decisions.
This is why we have systems that elect our representatives to make those decisions on our behalf.
But this doesn't change the fact that those representatives ought be as representative as possible and actually represent the people who are voting them in.
Just as we recognize that it is bad when those with more money are able to lobby their way into more policy we also tell you that is antithetical to democracy to give people more votes based on their location.
At the point that it is the fifth time that the electoral college didn't match up to that of the popular vote and someone was elected who wasn't truly chosen by by the people through the majority.
It is time to institute a system where the leader is truly chosen by the people.
More than this, we tell you that the old pragmatic arguments for the electoral college no longer exist.
Current technology allows us to make it for votes to be counted effectively with very low risk of fraud.
Which means that currently it is completely possible for us to have a more direct election of our presidents.
More than this, we don't we think the winner takes all policy destroys individual voices and leads to the kind of apathy that we regret in the current status quo.
I am unlikely to vote, unlikely to care about the presidential election outcome, because I live in a in a state where the vote is already decided because my state always votes blue.
What this means is that even if I am a hardcore republican, I'm unlikely to show up to the polls because I know that my vote will not be represented in regards to what president actually gets chosen.
Secondary of clash has to do with what we think this affects societally.
We tell you that the system in which every single state gets two representatives in addition to their population based electoral college vote undervalue cities and allows rural areas with lower populations, such as states like wyoming, to have every individual person's vote worth more than other people surrounding them.
We tell you this is a problem on two levels.
First, it's probably bad if just because I live in wyoming, my vote matters four times more than someone living in new york.
But more than just the principal reasoning as to why this is bad, it's also problematic because wyoming is almost eighty five percent made up of white people, whereas the majority of people of lower classes, the majority of people of color are living in much more urban areas, in cities such as new york, portland and philadelphia.
The problem is that the electoral college system systematically undervalues the votes people of color and minorities insofar as it places more votes on those who are living in less populated areas, traditionally that are less populated as well by people of color.
More than this, we tell you that the way that this changes campaigning means that instead of advocating for all states and all people equally, what happens is that individual political parties will choose to advocate only to swing states because they know they are the only ones truly making decisions about the election in regards to the electoral college.
It means you pander your not only do you only campaign in those areas but you also pander your policies to specific blocks that get you those states.
For example, getting in any given election where florida is a swing state, it is much more likely that candidates will pander to the floridian elderly in order to try and get the electoral college state rather than looking at rising demographics of young liberals living in highly populated cities.
But more than this, the next step to this is that if you are a president who's trying to go for a second term, there are certain stances you cannot take even they might if even if they might be politically preferable because you're afraid that you won't get elected for the next term because of swing states.
For example, few presidential candidates are likely to actually like actually repair our relations with cuba because they are afraid of losing floridian cubans and thus the floridian vote.
For these reasons proud to propose.