The motion for this debate is that we should ban boxing.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the danger to competitors.
We think that you need to paternalize boxers from being able to participate in this and like children who are thinking of being boxers from participating in this activity because society glamorize athletics and physical strength and oftentimes especially for boys glamorizes the associated violence and the associated domination that occurs during boxing.
So at the point that we don't think that people can resist the societal impulses on their own, we think it is necessary for the government to step in and say look this is too dangerous here are the reasons why we are not allowing it anymore.
So first into this is that athletes have a very short shelf life.
So after about ten years their bodies begin to give out but because they've dedicated so much of their lives to this activity there really isn't anything else for them to do.
So what happens is that you basically have someone who spent a solid twenty years of their lives training for this activity, becoming a professional boxer, spent six years in the boxing ring, and then after that has no more marketable skills because physically they can't do anything but also all the time that they spent training in the gym was time they didn't spend learning a different marketable skill.
This means that you actually end up with people who used to be athletes who end up below the poverty line afterwards because they never actually had a real living that they made besides being an athlete.
More than this though we think that physically boxing is incredibly dangerous.
It's the only sport that really involves a accepted and endorsed physical contact through fists.
Recognize that in every other sport such as soccer or basketball there are fouls for elbowing your opponents.
A boxing gets rid of all of that and says go for it.
So you end up with way more broken noses, limbs, necks, and it's also the only sport with a significant death count based on one on impact blow.
So something like thirty people a year die based on one punch in the boxing ring and many more than that die in the boxing ring holistically from more than one punch.
Specifically the use of boxing gloves worsens the situation because the large surface area carries the same initial force as if I was to just punch something but becomes more harmful because of the surface area it covers.
So it literally jiggles the brain by making contacts with more points on your head.
We think that at the point that participants end up with long term physical and mental health problems, that they could not have accounted for, that last far beyond their boxing careers, and end up costing much more than their boxing careers ever afforded them, and they shorten these people's lifespan, it is then okay for us to paternalize them.
But our secondary of clash has to do with why it's bad for society.
We want to talk about why it propagates violent culture.
Because when you watch violence you're essentially normalizing what like what you are looking at, right?
So if every day I spend my time watching people beat each other up I get less surprised the next time it occurs in front of me because it has become so expected.
So in the bobo doll experiment run by skinner, what he did was put put children in a room with a TV where they watched a man beat up a doll and later they were much more likely to mimic this behavior.
We think the same thing occurs when you're watching violent sports such as boxing because when you are a child who's looking at a role models and you're sitting down and you're seeing these big strong men who you aspire to be beating each other up, you're much more likely to go back and mimic this behavior later.
We think that there's an additional layer of harm though, at the point that it turns this activity into entertainment.
In order to maintain people feeling serious about violence, you need to keep a serious aura around it.
So if you make violence into entertainment, you're more likely to end up in situations where people find violence comical and are not actually going to act against it.
And we think that that boxing is specifically unique in this because it doesn't have a second layer to the sport.
There isn't a second goal where you're supposed to kick the ball in, it is completely based on just beating other people up.
For these reasons proud to oppose.
Propose.