When tim says pretty things, like listing all of the different despots he thinks the UN should take action against, he forgets that were operating in the real world, and that these kinds of ideas, such as mass, like regulation of different kinds of dictators require consistent backing, and the promise of a positive end results, because in the end, we've seen what happens when intervention occurs, and you don'tt stick it out till the end.
We tell you that power vacuums, such as that which were created in iraq, are more untenable than the dictators who existed previously, and as such, any active intervention should be one that is carefully planned, plotted, and known to be successful.
We just don't think this is something that the security council of the UN can actively provide, or promise, and this is why we think that the veto is very important.
Because, just like tim, sometimes individual countries get carried away, and think that they can stomach and chew more than they actually can.
When this happens, we think that the five main members are good at pinpointing when these funds don't exist, when the political motives don't exist, and saying: take a step back, maybe these call outs aren't necessary.
Two many areas of clash, the first on why we think the purpose of the security council, and the UN at large, is about staying a treaty and discourse based group, and allowing these nations to come together and have discourse.
We think that in order to maintain a dogma of discourse, you need to have an unwillingness to enter violent conflict, because otherwise, you're no longer discussing the conflicts that you're entering into, rather you are just saying: this is a bad situation, we can send forces in to fix it.
But more than this, we think it is good to think thoroughly through these kinds of proposals, because multiple vetos mean that these proposals go back on the floor, and reenter discussion, and we think that the sixth version of a given proposal is always going to be better than the first version.
And the only thing they're doing, on their side of the house, is making it easier for less thought out plans to go through.
More than this though, we think that you increase politicking on the UN, when you take away power, from those who see it as necessary, to them.
We think that all that happens is that, none of these five national security nations are going to be willing to give up their effective veto, and so are going to exercise it to the manipulation of countries.
We think that, it's just much more likely that now, they're going to go to swing votes, or go to individual leaders of countries, and say that if you want our support in other matters, if you want us to not undermine you, in other global trade agreements, or global affairs, you are not going to vote yes on this.
We think this creates more tension, and also leads to the pitting of countries one against the other.
At the point that the US can blame any country that defers to china's opinion for not letting their proposal through, those countries are more likely to get targeted, meaning that this kind of tension is antithetical, more so than anything else, to the UN's purpose.
Our second area of clash has to do with why these countries have earned their right to veto, and why, if we take it away, the impacts are much worse.
We think that, even if it makes it harder to regulate these larger countries, it is true that these larger countries, individually, provide more money to the UN than any of the smaller countries.
What this means is that, they are effectively buying their ability to choose where that money goes, and if they do not believe that a conflict is worth it, then they ought not be obligated to send their money, and their troops, to that conflict.
But more than this, we think that the alternative, on their side of the house, is that these countries just leave.
Because, in the end, large superpowers have very little to gain from the united nations.
They already have strong economies, they don't need collaboration that as much as other nations need collaboration with them.
What this means is that, when they start feeling disrespected, they leave, and the countries that are left don't get any kind of don't aren't able to get anything done, because they just don't have the same kind of funds, and don't have the kind of organization.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.