The motion for today's debate is that we should abolish double jeopardy.
Two main areas of clash, the first on the nature of our system of justice.
We think that a crime doesn't change, just because time has passed.
If I murdered someone fifty years ago, they are still murdered now, and the law remains the same, and the victim was still harmed, and the person is still dead.
We think that at the point, that new evidence comes out, maybe the jury was stacked, and we have reason to believe that there was an unfair acquittal, maybe there was a confession, or even the hundreds of years of new technology that we have acquired allows us to do things like DNA testing, and blood testing.
We think that the justice system needs to represent a need to adjust, to maintain what the original spirit is.
We think we have to acknowledge, that sometimes the trial system is imperfect, and the only way to solve this is by allowing something like double jeopardy to solve for these situations.
Because currently, the problem is that people, after getting acquitted once, and just setting up the right system of circumstances, hiring an expensive enough lawyer, any of these kinds of things.
Like, silencing enough witnesses means they get away scot free.
We think it is always a larger rights violation, to let someone go free than to put someone who is innocent through the trial process twice, because, in the end, if you are innocent, you are likely to be found so twice.
But, if you are guilty, you get to go free all forever after you're after you're tried once, under double jeopardy.
We think the impact of this is that, if if our justice system cannot be trusted, or is inconsistent, or allows people who are guilty to go free, due to things like the lack of double jeopardy, we think people are okay with flaunting the law, and losing trust in the system.
Things like OJ simpson getting away without any punishment, and then writing the book, if I did it, describing the crime and being like: yeah, I totally did it, are exactly the problem with our current society.
Criminals are okay with afterwards basically yelling to the world: look at the crime that I've committed, because they know they cannot answer it.
We think this decreases the general public's trust in the system, and decreases the efficiency overall.
Our secondary of clash has to do with victims' rights.
Because we think that when we're evaluating the justice system, we're working in a system of rights violations, and trying to compromise on who gets to be justified where.
And we think, the most important person in these situations is often the victim, because if someone has perpetrated something against a victim, they have violated their rights, and now owes a debt to them, and we because of what has been taken to them.
We think that a violation we have we think that it is important to be certain that that , that you are that the person, who you're letting go, is truly innocent, in order to fulfill your obligation to the victim and their rights.
We think, more than this though, that it is unlikely to be a system that is abused.
We think oftentimes resources are limited, and retrying the same person, over and over, is not only taxing to all those involved, but also incredibly monetarily consuming, and we just don't think that state legislatures have that ability.
Like, even if someone is incredibly racist, if they don't have the funds to amplify that racism, they're not going to retry the same person seventy million times.
More than this, we don't think that victims are going to push for this either.
At the point that someone has been found innocent once or twice, either they run out of money, or they ran out of the energy to do so.
We think it is important to recognize that, if a victim once closure, a second acquittal will oftentimes be enough.
But the problem, with allowing someone to not have to enter that second process in the first place, is that you are lacking the potentiality of closure at all.
We always think that the larger rights violation is on the side of having double jeopardy, we think that the only people who it protects are those who are guilty, and therefore it ought be abolished.
For these reasons proud to propose.