The alternatives to banning trans fat are exactly the kinds of education that yaar says don't work.
Things like ad campaigns and targeted grants that allow schools to have better health classes and more recess times.
Things like that unlike what yaar posits are incredibly useful and we see that they've been very effective in things like decreasing the use of cigarettes where something like eighty percent less people smoke cigarettes now than even five years ago did.
It's incredibly important to notice that these kinds of that think that simple information can easily allow people to be more educated about the decisions that they're making and allow them to make better decisions without banning their options through the government.
Two main areas of clash.
First on why the standards for intervention aren't met.
Unless government is also going to ban sugar, caffeine, or any other addictive food additive then they cannot ban then they cannot rightfully been trans fat.
It is agreed by both sides of the house that you could intervene when something is distinctly harmful but government never proved somehow that trans fat was distinct because it's not more harmful than those examples I just listed.
We think that in order to preserve democracy, the government needs to be as least restrictive as possible and provide as much autonomy over their decisions to the individual as they can.
This means giving the right for people to make harmful decisions sometimes and unlike hard drugs, trans fat is less addictive and less immediately damaging than things like heroin.
Like it is much easier for someone to be fully informed about the harms and change their diet than it is to tell a drug addict this drug is bad for you because those kind of chemicals in the brain information just can't fight.
So basically at the point that we've proven to you that this is not more distinct than any other kind of mildly addicting food additive and that we and that it is and that it is not nearly as harmful as things that we currently have banned, we don't think that government has met the necessary standards in order to ban this in the first place.
But in case you don't buy that, let's talk about the harms.
Our second are of clash has to do with exactly how much banning trans fat would change the lives of specific individuals in a bad way because recognize that the kind of food that uses trans fat is oftentimes things that are cheaper.
Fast food restaurants are heavy users of trans fat any sort of like frozen good, TV dinners.
These are the like kind of groups that use trans fat because it is so cheap and is so easily mass produced and so easily used as a preservative.
What this means is that the people who rely on this kind of food are those who usually don't have the economic means to eat better, because you sure as hell aren't going to see a rich person chomping on mcdonald's all day because they know that it's bad for their bodies and they have the money to choose an alternative.
So all that government is doing is targeting people who already don't have the means and saying that because we decided this is so bad for you we prefer for you do not have enough food at all.
While opposition prefers that you eat something less healthy as opposed to just not having enough to eat in first place because we think that it's much worse for children to not have a meal than it is for them to have something that is less healthy but at least they can still function that day, they can still learn normally.
Recognize that being hungry detracts from a lot of productive abilities.
So if I didn't eat dinner that night, I'm not going to be able to focus in school the next day.
More than this though, we think this is a band aid on the obesity epidemic because people can still get fat off of unhealthy foods without trans fat being included but if you're using all of your political will to change the laws around banning trans fat, you're necessarily not targeting these kinds of problems at the core.
You need to encourage people to be able to make healthy decisions regardless of what the options before them are.
You can't just take away their options because in the end you're not going to be able to ban all kinds of unhealthy food.
You need to be able to teach people to choose between something healthy and unhealthy and choose the healthy one even though the unhealthy one tastes better.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.