We should end cheerleading.
Two main areas of clash, first about the over-sexualization of youth.
We think that it's true that cheerleading as a sport is entirely based on the sexualization of eighth grade to twelfth grade girls.
We see this in terms of the revealing dance moves, the skimpy costumes, and to the fact that they only exist in order to motivate male ballplayers on a field.
And the fact that it has always been majority marketed towards women and only started to include men when it became like a principled thing, like yes, let's have one or two men on the team who want to do it.
We think that what this does is it presents these girls as objects for male consumption, and as such it influences the way that these people see them in the future.
Like if I'm a football player and I've been taught that these people are here to cheer me like me on, and here for my entertainment and my pleasure and like my motivation, then why would this be something that I would recognize as like individual people who I ought treat with respect or with dignity, if I have been taught that they don't actually deserve either of those things.
We think that this influences these people into the long term, insofar as these become the like adults who also watch these kinds of things from the sidelines and see these individuals to be just as like sexualized and objectified for their use as the like those who are younger.
It indicates this also it's like a generalizable thing to all women, it says like look, like women in general are sexually gratifying, they're here to service you, and that's something that young men already learn from a really young age from other stimuli, but something that gets massively reinforced when they see cheerleaders out on the field.
This is especially problematic because it teaches young girls to see themselves in this way as well.
Like when society tells you that you are something for long enough, you tend to start believing it, especially when this comes from figures of authority or people who you respect, or if this is the way that like the majority of the men in your grade treat you, if this is how you were taught you gain popularity, as we often see surrounding cheerleading culture in general, and we think that's actually incredibly problematic.
It poisons the ability of the self to see yourself in an empowering manner and to see yourself as an equal to men specifically.
We think this is actually quite obvious, like how do you see yourself as an equal to someone that you were taught you are an object for the pleasure of, like we think that a lot of this also comes with signaling like the stereotype of the cheerleader who gets together with the with like the boy from the football team, and like this is something that teachers propagate in really subtle ways, and so we actually don't see any kind of solution to this except to abolish the entire sport.
Like given that it literally has no other purpose besides to objectify women and show that they are just objects for male consumption, we don't understand why we ought value its existence at all.
This brings us to our second area of clash, which is about working against the gendering of athletics.
Recognize that cheerleading is is like represents a blatant creation of a sport just for women when there isn't actually a need.
Women are perfectly capable of doing things like football, soccer, dance.
Recognize that cheerleading is literally dance, except dance usually doesn't doesn't have as many like sexually submissive undertones to it.
So we actually think that like there's literally no unique niche that cheerleading fills, so we don't understand why it exists in the first place.
It's just there to propagate the objectification of women in a society that and like to tell us that we value boys more than girls, which is why our girls are like relegated to this motivation role, rather than being the focus of the game in the way that football players are.
We think that what this is about is a round about whether what kind of options we provide and what kids are pushed toward, and we're unclear on why there ought be an there ought be an option or an influence to do something like cheerleading that is clearly so detrimental, when there are sports that are infinitely less problematic out there.
Proud to propose.