The problem with government is that they rely on the idea that the monarchy is full of awful people who are unrepresentative of the democratic whole and to them ideals.
The problem with this is that they fail to understand exactly how much the monarchy has developed and exactly how little power it has.
First, even the government speaker acknowledges that queen elizabeth has been much more moderate and hasn't actually committed any of the atrocities that they claim have happened.
More than this, let me tell you that it is likely that if queen elizabeth or any other member of the monarchy were to attempt a political coup, they would quickly be disestablished, because at this point it is accepted that their role is as a figurehead and not one that is a political that is political.
What it comes down to is that the monarchy does very little good, but it also does very little bad.
We tell you that the amount of money and energy that would go into lifting the monarchy is thus unnecessary and unjustified, given that they aren't actually committing any harm.
With that, two main areas of clash, the first on public will.
Recent polls have shown that more than three to every one person wants to keep the monarchy.
This means, first, that the majority in a democracy want it to exist.
This, in itself, should be enough, given that a democratic government is one that accepts the majority will of its population.
But even if that's not enough, pragmatically it means it would be very socially challenging to disband and would cause a lot of disfavor to the individual citizens.
It would be expensive and also would cause political anguish among those among like at least three to every one individual living within the UK.
This means it is simply not worth it.
Use this effort elsewhere to create real political change that can benefit lives, rather than removing a relic that hasn't actually caused any harm.
If gov wants to talk about finances, we think that the fact that you would need to create an alternative head of state, fund the overhead costs of that switch in the first, secure like maintain security for the crown in the same time, all of this would be equally expensive in addition to the costs of having to switch over, and in addition to that, the political turmoil that would occur over the method of election or selection of this individual.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think that the monarchy often serves political good.
We think that as the only beloved part of the government in times when there are contentious decisions being made, it is important not to disband it and increase political unity that you don't see in other states without a monarchy.
In the united states, there is constant anger over the way that congress operates, over the way that the president operates, and oftentimes when this occurs, you see massive distrust within the government, thus fracturing within the nationalism of the population.
The reason you don't see this happen as viciously within england and other UK states is because even when congress is messing up, even when you have problems within branches of the government, you still believe in the queen, you still believe in that figurehead.
We think that it is that when there is turmoil elsewhere, it is good to promote national unity and problematic to take the symbol that does so away.
More than this, we think that the queen other members of the monarchy are often symbols for charity work and other social good.
Because they are expected and turn up at charity events and donate money to good causes and advocate for good causes, we think the population follows.
Much in the way that the first lady of the united states often takes up a cause that they advocate for, we think the members of the monarchy operate in a similar manner.
They show the members of their state how they ought be behaving in a way that is socially good, and others follow.
Finally though, we think that the monarchy attracts tourism in a way that other things don't.
The massive phenomenon of following the marriage of the prince and princess on screen, live tweeting the event, looking at the outfits that their children are wearing, all of this attracts massive amount of popular massive amounts of people to the area in order to even catch a glance or look at where they live.
We think that this kind of income is also something that disappears when you abolish the monarchy.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.