The problem with will is that he seems to assume that the only way in which you can tell kids not to get pregnant, is by telling them to only be abstinent.
The problem with this is that you can still have a sex-ed class that says: "if you don't wanna get pregnant abstinence is the only certainty, " and then continues to say " but maybe you weren't abstinent.
Here's how you still prevent pregnancy.
Here's how you still prevent STD's. "
Then he says that you shouldn't be having sex.
Like, maybe.
The problem with this is that high schooler is exactly around the age in which people are both physically and emotionally developed enough to enter into relationships and begin to consent.
These are also the times in which people learn about consent and learn about healthy relationships, so it's unclear what he gets to be paternalistic about it especially when it isn't effective.
Three main areas of clash: first on why abstinence only sexual education contributes to pregnancy and STD's.
Over and over, abstinence only sex ed has been proven not to work.
All that happens is that kids still have sex but now they don't know how to do it safely.
When you make a subject taboo you're going to want to do it a lot more.
We see this numerous times when with with political parties.
If a if a child comes from a family that is particularly conservative or particularly liberal and punishes the other, than they are much more likely to be the opposite of their parent.
Same applies with sex.
But also, it's just that time of children's development and you're not going to be able to stop them by pretending that it doesn't exist.
So it leads to more pregnancy and STD's because you don't know how to use condoms and you're more likely to listen to trash on the internet.
For example, a lot of, like, still a major percentage of women, or high school students, believe that if you douche with soda water after you have sex this means you're not going to get pregnant.
In reality, all this means is that you're going to have a yeast infection and you didn't use a condom, so you're also more likely to get pregnant.
This is also why you end up with large amounts of outbreaks of STD's, because when you don't teach people about the importance of condoms, they're much more likely to get into not using them by their partner.
Our second area of clash has to do with why this propagates problematic and often sexist norms.
When you're teaching abstinence only, you're automatically saying that it that abstinence is good and correct, and then having sex is wrong.
This propagates the stigma that if you are someone who does have sex, regardless of the message that your school is sending, you are automatically someone who is bad, or someone who is behaving in an improper manner.
This usually targets women because if you're pregnant, then that is like a direct showing of the fact that you had sex, but also because women are often seen as those who are instigators or distracting men.
This is incredibly problematic, given that your value as a human being probably shouldn't be defined by what you do with your body, but rather perhaps who you are as a person, what you've accomplished in your life, etcetera etcetera.
Any other metric besides what you've done before.
Our third area of clash has to do with why it disregards the pleasurable aspect of sex, and leaves people with long term misunderstanding of of sexuality in general.
If you never get to talking about the actual act of sex because you're busy preaching abstinence, you never explain consent, the clitoris, etcetera.
This means kids rely on stereotypes of sex, oftentimes these are male centric.
The concept of a one orgasm being at the end of sex, even though for women these often last a lot longer, or often take a lot longer than what it takes for a man.
You don't learn about the basic parts of your bodies, which makes both genders a lot less likely to enjoy themselves, but you also don't value yourself as much when you are taught your whole life that the other person is more important than you.
So you're much less likely to have healthy relationships built on mutual consent, and much more likely for both genders to end up in situations where they feel pressured to do something and feel bad about saying no.
For these reasons proud to oppose.