The motion for today's debate is that we should introduce a flat tax.
What this means is that in the united states where we currently tout a progressive tax the majority of the time we would instead institute we would replace that tax with only a flat tax which would take the same percentage of income from everyone regardless of how high their income is.
So someone who was earning a hundred thousand dollars a year would still pay more in taxes than someone earning only forty thousand but only because of the percentage not because the percentage goes up as you pay as you as you earn more.
Three main areas of clash, first on the principle of fairness in this situation.
We think that at the end of the day, wages are meant to evaluate the labor that you put in and different forms of labor are worth different amount not even due to an objective metric but rather because of the way that society values that, making this actually one of the most democratic systems that currently exists.
It basically says that because that we take all these criteria, how much energy you put into something: how much schooling you had to go through, how much that schooling maybe cost.
And we say this is the metric by which we evaluate how many how much your wages are and we think this is like the market is a pretty is does like a pretty good job of this insofar as clearly people are still willing to go into any number of positions regardless of their wages, it just changes the barriers in between.
So we think that doctors make more than fry cooks because society values the effort that both jobs require and how much of an energy commitment they are and decided that being a doctor deserves more compensation.
Given that we understand that we think that how much each career makes influences then how like what those people choose to put into it, so we think that everyone has access to the information that a doctor makes more than a fry cook and given this they make an educated decision based on this knowledge in combination with their knowledge of how much education they might need etcetera etcetera and become either a doctor or a fry cook.
So given that you need to so given the end of that whatever you earn is in exchange for your labor, it becomes the property of that individual who earned it.
Taxes regardless of what kind they are are a state are a form of state supported theft but given that you need some tax for public good that everyone agrees is necessary like roads are something that everyone needs etcetera we think that it's fundamentally unjust to steal more from some people on the basis of their income and that you need to promote a hard line when it comes to state sponsored thefts as to what is justified and what is not.
So we think that it's only fair if it's the same percentage from each person given that that way you're stealing the same percentage from each person.
Our second area of clash is about encouraging innovation.
We think that getting more money is an incentive for people to exert themselves more than they are necessarily comfortable exerting themselves and a progressive tax removes the incentive because it reduces the margin of difference in economic growth.
It makes the trade off of time for money harder to justify if the money is marginal in terms of its increase.
We need but we need people to have an incentive to work harder in order to achieve greater efficiency like at the end of the day we need someone to serve as the manager or the boss or the director and if the extra hours that they spend in the professional arena does not justify the amount of money that they earn because the progressive tax takes off so much of their raise, then we're just not going to have anyone who's willing to become those because everyone loves maximizing the time they spend at home or relaxing.
But we also think this is really important in terms of maximizing peoples' incentives to create and to innovate like physically.
We think the reason we have the majority of the great inventions in the world have to do with because we like respect patents and respect intellectual property.
Our third area of clash is just on why it maximizes efficiency.
We think that it gets rid of having to file for taxes, no dividends, no IRS rules to comply with, which just makes the entire tax process a lot easier.
For these reasons, proud to propose.