Three main arguments as to why we should not necessarily adopted vegetarianism.
First let's talk about cultural validity.
So first, it's unclear why we have to respect animal rights, infinitely.
There have been multiple differences that have been pointing pointed out by philosophers that necessarily mean that even if animals qualify for some rights they definitely don't qualify to all of the rights that a human being might have.
First, they oftentimes don't carry the same level of sentience and those that do we do not eat.
But second, animals don't really have a conception of the future versus the past and of their existence in that timeline.
Rather, they have a sense of their current self and of current existence and of current biological drives but they can't actually imagine themselves in the future and they can't contextualize themselves there.
Which means when you kill an animal it's not the same as killing a human, you're not removing that animals like infinitely long life before their eyes because they couldn't conceptualize that life in the first place.
What this means is that there isn't a good reason not to kill an animal, you're not taking anything away from it and as long as you're doing so in a humane manner there isn't actually an ethical dilemma.
So, yeah, right now we have a problem with factory farming.
I'll tell you later why this problem exists on both sides of the house, but we think that this is something that we can work towards fixing and something that we can like adjust to over time, like sustainable and ethical farming.
At that point we think that people's cultures and their happiness becomes infinitely more important than this animal's life.
If this is part of your identity it can be really impact how you relate your culture and yourself to lose it.
Because recognize that for a lot of people growing up eating meat as part of cultural celebrations, as part of celebrations of yourself, or maybe it's just the meal that your mother made every night when you guys couldn't really afford anything else, all of these are valid modes of self expression and self identity.
And we think that when you like create a world in which it becomes preferable to adopt vegetarianism, you make it preferable to stop believing in these, to stop adopting to yourself.
So we think that like people should be able to have their preferences and should be able to eat meat if they so desire.
Our second area of clash has to do with ease of access and expenses, because even though it might be reasonable for someone to go vegetarian it is still incredibly difficult to make that lifestyle shift.
When you grow up with one specific diet where you know that you'll be healthy eating it and suddenly you have to switch to something completely different, we think that a lot of the times you actually run into a lot of problems with being healthy and maintaining a healthy lifestyle, once you switch, because your body is very unused to the way that you are now consuming these nutrients and sometimes you're so unused to it that you don't necessarily know how to consume the same number of necessary nutrients the same way.
So we think that meat is something that most people understand how to cook, it has the same health composition that they've been living with their whole life so they can live off of diets that have meat in them without becoming unhealthy and they also exist in like most supermarkets regardless of what demographic you're living in.
And it's like very convenient for you to make, people know how to cook it and it's usually pretty cheap.
And honestly it's usually cheaper than getting enough vegetables that will keep you full in the same way.
And so we prefer that people be able to have this ease of access.
Our third area of clash has to do with the possibility of sustainability.
Because factory farming is going to exist on both sides of the house, the question is just are we factory farming animals or are we doing the same thing with vegetables, but in both worlds you're going to have real people and real animals who being harmed in the process because you don't actually change the market incentives.
In fact you're just saying, hey look now we're going to buy a crapload of this other product, you better switch to focusing on mass producing that.
So basically what they're side is creating is a world in which we can jump from trend to trend without actually solving the underlying issue.
It means that we only changed the facade without discussing more ethical ways of farming or sustainability or hydroponics.
And so we think that our side of the house is actually going to provide you a world in which we can face the actual problem.
For these reasons proud to oppose.