Will cannot have it both ways.
He has to choose are these laws rarely enforced and thus do not matter or do we live in a dictatorship in which every sixteen year old who has sex is dragged into court.
We think that it is somewhere in between.
We don't think that anyone is getting deprived of their sexual liberation.
Will rightfully points out that the majority of the time these laws aren't enforced.
It's really rare that the eighteen year old is sued by the sixteen year old because they're both in the same high school class.
Rather we think that we need these laws in place for those edge cases for when people need to press charges or when someone is being truly abused.
These systems are checks in a world where we hope we never have to use them.
More than this, we don't think that we have to do this in the dumb way.
Op is open to adjustments in laws, not persecuting people who are within two years of each other or other similar kinds of adjustments.
The only thing that we're truly defending is a strict age of consent at eighteen year olds eighteen years old.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on the promotion of sexualization of youth by these kinds of laws.
When you remove illegality you create a market.
Already one of the largest porn searches are teen and amateur.
Now you can have actual teens on that screen.
Recognize the only thing stopping industries such as porn or other like sexually objectifying TV shows from using very young children is that it's illegal to do so.
We think at the point that you remove that boundary you're going to have these people increasingly sexualized and younger and younger people because this is already the trend that we're moving toward.
Sure I gave you one more extreme example but we also think that there's going to be a general increase in more suggestive media with youth as you see less and less stigmatization of young sex.
This means more and more immersion in sex before you are old enough to even conceptualize it, what it might mean.
Government is right.
You can't remove all the influences but you can definitely not add to that fire by removing the age of consent.
Society has gone far enough with sexualizing young women.
We tell you no more.
Our second area of clash has to do with the protection of minors because even if they might understand the physical mechanism of sex, we don't think they usually understand the intimate, emotional details.
Will is right, there is a power disbalance between ages but that isn't created by the age of consent rather that existed before hand and the age of consent is created to protect against it.
Older men and women will always be more experienced and be able to leverage emotional power against the younger people they are sleeping with.
Combine this oftentimes with financial power and you end up in the kind of power disbalance relationships that we're talking about.
It's just true that there is something wrong with the twenty eight year old who's dating sixteen year old and that sixteen year old probably needs to be protected from them.
We think that you need to have that legal catch hole for when there is a problem and when someone does want to press charges because the alternative is a world in which regardless of how much abuse you're going through, you cannot prove it because this is just part of being in a relationship.
We need to offer special protections, specifically to minors, because they are much more likely to be exploited.
Not only do they often not know what a healthy relationship looks like, but they are often taught by the media that the way in which they can gain love or acceptance is by offering themselves up sexually.
And we think that at some point these people need to be protected from themselves and from the media they consume their entire lives.
As such the age of consent is fine.
The only thing that needs changing is people's mindsets and how we view it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.