Just because something has been used for bad things, doesn't mean it inherently is bad.
The mistake that tim makes throughout his speech is that he aligns all of these problematic things with religion.
Sure, people have used religion to warrant bad things, but science has also been used in similar manners.
When scientists claim that things inherent to the woman's body make it harder for her to work, and thus and thus	 warrant why the pay gap ought exist.
When they say that because of someone's race, they are physically incapable of the same kind of workload as others or tend to have certain traits.
We think that in the same way that we don't denounce all of science because it has been used to warrant racist or sexist views, we also don't denounce religion just because people started war over it.
We think that what tim is saying is basically that people are shitty.
But just because people are bad, doesn't mean the things that they do are always the things that they use are also bad.
We think that what matters in this round is the good that religion has done.
Insofar as it is probably the case that people will pick wars on either side of the house, the question is what core beliefs those people carry and how they personally feel about themselves.
Two main areas of clash.
The first on self-actualization and closure.
We think that there are things that can never be explained by science.
Questions such as, why do I exist?
Why am I here on earth?
What is the purpose of my life?
What happens after I die?
All of these are either questions that science will never answer, or that we have to wait hundreds of years to answer.
But we think that people are harmed by the active lack of knowledge about these.
We think that it can cause massive amounts of anxiety to question what happens to your dying uncle after he leaves, to question whether or not there is an afterlife for yourself when you die, and whether or not you'll be able to still see the children that you leave behind.
All of these are things that people need to have closure for that religion provides.
Because having someone say, it's alright, no matter what happens you'll be okay because god is there, is also would allows us to go to the rest of our lives productively without being afraid of these things.
But tim is like oh, but all this does is breed people who are non-skeptical and don't question.
But this just isn't the case, right?
We think there's a difference between believing in a god and skepticism in other situations.
In fact, we think that certain religions teach people to question more.
A certain like a central tenet of judaism is to question the learnings and argue about them, similarly to buddhism.
At the point that we don't think this meaningfully tells people to be sheeple, but rather just says you should believe in this religion doctrine, all this teaches people is to choose to believe in choose to believe things that while still understanding when logic also exists.
The majority of religious people will acknowledge that their belief is not entirely rational, but say that they need it because it protects them from protects them their functioning in other situations.
We think that a lot of massive scientific figures, such as einstein, the cuban doctor who discovered pluripotent stem cells, are people who are highly religious but still understood that you can also be a scientist, also understand logic.
Second area of clash has to do with communities and the good that religious religions have done.
Because we think that religions preach generally good moral things.
And sure, maybe these moral things are pushed upon their population, as tim says, but we just don't think that we care, as long as this means that less people think it's okay to murder others or steal things.
We think that these beliefs motivate incredibly positive things for society.
Millions of food banks, homeless shelters, like other kinds of situations are run by churches and and synagogues and other religious institutes.
We think that they encourage their youth to do things like volunteer, empathize with the poor, recognize people's situations.
All of these doctrines are things that we actually think science lacks, insofar as straight up logic will tell you that will tell you things like you're just not working hard enough to be successful, or other claims.
But we also think that the friendly communities that people form within these religions are incredibly important.
To have someone who believes the same things as you and is willing to support you is very helpful for when you fall upon hard times, or need a community behind you.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.