Op agrees that gambling is generally a bad thing that ought be discouraged in society.
But there is a difference between discouraging it and banning it.
And we think that even though it is justified to discourage things that are bad for society, it is not justified to ban it unless they can show a distinct third party harm that is worthy of compromising one's rights on.
We don't think government did it, but here are some examples of regulations.
We think that maybe the government should first stop propping gambling up.
And also you can even explain the risks much in the same way that even though smoking is damaging to myself and third parties and secondhand smoke can be damaging to others, the government cannot ban me from inhaling tobacco smoke.
Rather they can put a sticker on every package that tells me, don't do this, in the same way we think that op would be accepting of regulations imposed against gambling that requires the disclosure of the risks or warning labels to be all over the place.
But banning is what government had to prove.
With that, two main areas of clash: the first on why we think this is a legitimate action within the market that cannot be banned.
We think that most businesses are, in part, ripping off the consumer to make money.
Even something as innocuous as insurance operates on the person's fear or risk of injury to make them overpay so that afterwards they might pay a little bit less for some operation and is widely considered not worth it given that any given individual's risk for developing an injury is low.
But we do it and we allow insurance corporations to exist regardless of the fact that they are ripping off the consumer because it is okay for them to make money off ripping off the consumer as long as the consumer's freely choosing to pay into that system.
We think that in a capitalist economy we let business businesses make money in this way and pop up where the desire comes from and even if they if they're making money off of others poor choices, as long as those people are not being able being coerced into that system by like any like massive harm or threat, than that system is allowed to exist.
Otherwise it is an unfair imposition of the government into the market and cannot occur.
Our secondary of clash has to do as to why this is a legitimate choice of the person and the government cannot interfere with that right.
Because we think that in the end, people have a right to make bad decisions.
Even if I think that there are better ways to spend money than buying than gambling or a comparable example might be buying things in online games, this is what my opinion is and I don't get to impose this opinion on other people, because in the end I do not know their life, I do not know what they can afford, or what they think is more important to them.
Some people do prioritize being able to gamble or pay into games more than they prioritize their own health.
Is this a problem?
Yes, but it's also their problem and not one that the government gets to interfere in, much in the way that it is their decision if they want to smoke cigarettes, and not the right of the government to say, I'm sorry but you can't.
We think that in the end the interfering into these kinds of rights can be incredibly harmful, because at the point that the government can just decide, because there are better alternatives, we are going to ban this one, there's nothing standing between a democratic government and just dictating everything that your citizens must do.
Yes, there is a certain exercise regime that is much better than what you're currently doing, we're going to ban not exercising.
These are the examples of what comes along when you start imposing on people's rights.
We think in the end, people will always make bad decisions and the government cannot regulate them all away.
What this means is that sometimes you're just going to have to stand there and watch.
In the end, that person knows themselves better than a large bureaucratic body that has never met them ever will.
And even though gambling is damaging to some, it is certainly not damaging to all, and certainly not damaging enough that it ought be banned.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.