So we think it's probably fine when governments are unwilling to take in hardcore criminals who have actively like committed crimes like homicide or actively violent crimes, but we think the debate we're having is whether you should limit asylum asylum against those who have been discriminated against in their home countries and those who like face imminent threats.
Like obviously we don't care if you stolen something from a store or if you have a misdemeanor, it's more about whether or not you need to be safer need to get away from your current situation.
Two main areas of clash: the first on the obligations of western liberal democracies.
Although the state is an institution, it's also made up of individual people that have obligations to each other.
One of the obligations is to assist others when it comes at little to no cost to yourself.
This is because the circumstances that provide one person with a better life than another are random.
But also because in capitalist systems those who profit often do so by oppressing others.
So the people escaping political subjugation in china are often the same people that people in the US are profiting off of when we outsource our corporation to to china and encourage the exploitative government.
We also think that western liberal democracies are more specifically obligated to developing countries and their citizens because they often are partially responsible for their circumstances.
Like america literally created isis when they shipped off weapons to like rebel groups in iran, and the britons and the brits literally destroyed african independence by redrawing the borders and just kind of colonizing all over the place.
Same with india.
When states cause the problems of others, we think they have an obligation to assist with the consequences given that they caused them.
We think that taking in those affected by their actions is an effective way to do so, and like possibly one of the best ways in so far as you are saving lives without like with minimum expenditure on yourself.
Like we think a really important thing in this round is that states aren't actually harmed by taking in more immigrants.
Like sure, there are arguments about why it might be difficult for your welfare system but all of these things even out over time.
Like we had many studies that have shown that immigrants, when integrated, actually become very productive members of society, and give birth to children that become very productive members of society.
Our second area of clash has to do with the arbitrary nature of citizenship.
Because even if you think that obligations occur first to your citizens, we don't think that applies if the way by which people can be citizens is arbitrary and there is no like fixed standard by which we measure.
So both the standards that we currently use don't really make sense, right?
Because either the standard is that you were born in that state or the standard is that you're related by blood to someone else.
Neither of these things are something that like you as a fetus or you as an unborn child can actually control.
You're born within borders you didn't decide, that in many cases of like countries or continents such as africa or asia were drawn by other imperialist states.
You have limited mobility, it's like very difficult to just choose to live in a comfortable situation because you are often blocked by your own government and by your own means.
So if I don't have enough money I cannot escape.
But also because of immigration regulations such as what we're talking about right now.
You're often also born into a class that you can't get out of because of societal circumstances.
So at the point that literally none of these things are things that I can opt into or like things that I can even comprehend, it's just something that I am placed into when I am born, we don't think that there's actually meaningful fair standard by which we ascribe citizens and therefore it's impossible for states to have obligations to them first.
This honestly makes the government's policy quite discriminatory insofar as it says: " based on this arbitrary factor that you were born within these drawn lines, then you get to have then you get to have access to like better goods and resources where as everyone who is arbitrarily outside of those lines, well, screw you. "
We think that obligation exists not to citizens but to any human equally unless, you ought not limit amnesty.
For these reasons proud to oppose.