School is perfectly fine the way it is now with students coming in for the majority of the winter year like fall and winter and parts of spring and then having a break over the course of summer during which they can recuperate.
Two areas of clash first on the needs of children.
It is better for the learning of children if they are given time off during the summer rather than first forced to attend school throughout the entire year.
This is because when students are forced to come in repetitively day after day after day even if you have short breaks in between it's still not enough to truly shake off that feeling of being back in school and completely relax before coming back in.
Sure they forget some things but this is better than the opposite world in which maybe they're taught more but they don't actually ending up learning more because they're much more likely to get bored, stop paying attention, and when they don't have summer to recuperate they also stop being able to intake all of that information at the same rates because they are so tired of it.
Maintaining this kind of rigorous schedule takes a lot of energy out of students.
Being able to take the summer and sort of distance yourself from that lifestyle allows students to come back to the at the beginning of the year full of energy and capable of learning all of that information to the fullest extent.
Also we think that it is better in terms of family time when children are not going to school over the summer.
Because with school in session you come home.
You do your homework.
And even if your parents are home from work and they're around you during that time you're often more stressed.
And because you are busy with other things you actually get less quality time with your parents.
More than this we think that weather actually matters in these situations.
So being able to a schedule of education under the summer for a longer period of time rather than only having short breaks in which you might have like in in which a lot of the time the weather might not be as pleasant and you and the kinds of activities you can do during these breaks are actually incredibly limited.
Our second area of clash has to do with why we think that it is better in the long term in terms of life experience first ones to have summer off.
Because recognize that life after you exit school isn't based on classes and the kind of schedule that is held them around it.
Rather it is going to be much more similar to what high schoolers or oftentimes once you get into college and how you spend your summers what those summers look like.
Because when it is during the summer when you actually have time to hold down a nine to five job to do an internship.
So in the situations of high school students it's the only time in which they get to experience what the rest of their life is going to look like rather than just what these current four years of their life are going to look like.
This also applies in situations of resume building we think that a lot of the time the only time that high schoolers have to maintain rigorous internships and take advantage of strong opportunities is during the summer when they have swaths of large amounts of time.
Otherwise large amounts of resources are required in order to put them in situations during the school year where they can allocate that time to these research opportunities or resume building opportunities.
If we want to talk about low income students this is especially important there because while for rich students parents might be able to pay administrations of colleges and get them in either way for low income students if you don't have things to pad your resume schools have much less of an incentive to take you in because you don't provide an economic incentive for them.
So for those reasons we think that it is actually better for low income students if they can build their resume during that time.
But even if they don't want to go to college we think that the only time in which you can make a large sum of money through the that can last you into the year is over the summer when you can work much longer hours than during the school year.
Weaving on their side of the house students on net get less time in which they can stockpile funds that can last them to the school year when they might be able to work a lot less or not all at all because they need to focus on studies for these reasons proud to oppose.