The motion for today's debate is that we should that holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why this is unprotected speech as per general freedom of speech like laws.
So recognize that we protect speech for most situations except in those where it is incendiary, AKA a cult of violence, or causes significant harm to others.
This is why for example, you cannot yell fire in a crowded theater, because clearly this is a situation in which your free speech causes significant harm to others that impedes their future rights.
Or for another example, why, call to arms, by the communist party were not allowed on fliers because even though it is free speech to be a communist it is not free speech to yell let us demolish the capitalist world through bringing up arms against our brethren.
So recognize that holocaust denial clearly does both.
First, it is often a call to violence against jews because they are seen as those people who unfairly put others in jail because they by faking the holocaust but and this leads to physical violence in and of itself.
So how many times have we seen videos in which neo-nazis assault jews by yelling that they faked the holocaust and use this as an avenue by which they can justify their future violence?
We also think that it causes deep psychological harm to those listening, especially those of jewish descent or survivors of the holocaust, because it invalidates their experiences and says you made this up, you didn't actually experience the pain that you did before.
Recognize that there is also no difference between psychological and physical harm other than the stigma that we have put in society upon it.
Because even when when even our like chemical connections in our brain fire the same way if you are to cut me then if you are to verbally assault me.
We think that at that point they become indistinguishable from each other.
There's also long term physical harm to jewish communities when they are invalidated and broken apart by this kind of speech.
So once we recognize that it is unprotected speech we can then criminalize it off that alone.
But second, let's talk about societal impacts.
Because we think that if you can show if we can show you that there is enough bad harms associated with holocaust denial, then we don't care if it's free speech that ought be protected, it ought be banned based on a utilitarian framework in which we see that the harms outweigh the like principled stance.
So let's talk about damage to jewish communities.
Because when you invalidate a community and cause others to see it is untrustworthy, it means you are taking away first, a lot of the infrastructure that comes in from other communities, but also and like public support, but also psychologically damaging the individuals that compose that community.
You're invalidating survivors' experiences, and it tells families that the losses they experienced are fake.
This is anger that never gets answered on their side of the house when when holocost holocaust deniers get to walk free after actively harming those who have to listen to them.
We think that as with any kind of crime that causes a harm it is only just if they also have to pay the price of a criminal offense.
So if one of these nazis was to come up and stab a member of the jewish community they would necessarily be placed in jail than have to pay like some sort of retributive price on this.
We think that it is no different when they tell someone that they're like that the holocaust is faked insofar as the same kind of harm is caused.
But next we want and finally we want to talk about children.
Because we think that holocaust denial is especially damaging when it is allowed into our schools and allowed to be spouted by teachers.
Very recently there was a scenario in which one a child was allowed to write an entire essay on how the holocaust was fake with sources brought up to verify it.
We think that children are often more impressionable than adults and that in these situations children very well do believe that the holocaust might have been faked.
This creates a long term unsafe and more hateful world in which children are essentially raised with anti-semitism.
Don't let them poison the minds of our youth, we think that it ought be a criminal offense.
For these reasons proud to propose.