Three areas of clash as to why racial profiling ought not be allowed in airports.
First, it is no longer relevant.
There was a time when due to regional originality of certain groups of people racial profile was incredibly effective.
Because in the end, the majority of isis were iranians.
But this has passed as soon as racial profiling became a known tactic.
This is because terrorist organizations aren't stupid.
They know that a brown man or a religiously dressed women are more likely to be stopped, so instead they recruit white kids to do their dirty work.
What this means is that instead of actually finding terrorists or likely criminals, all that racial profiling accomplishes is creating a distraction from the real culprit and making it less likely that you're actually going to find them.
Because while you're busy patting down the guy with the accent, the person who actually has the dangerous item is much more likely to slip by unnoticed.
It it's also no longer relevant because airport security has gotten so tight that it's incredibly unlikely that anything will at smuggled in in the first place.
At the point that you get stopped for aerosol cans that are actually just your deodorant, and metal detectors exist that scan your whole body seamlessly, we're not sure how exactly someone is going to get by with a weapon in the first place.
Our second area of clash has to do with why it's rights violative.
In the united states you are innocent until proven guilty by our constitutional rights.
When you use racial profiling you pre-assume someone's guilt based on their race.
Therefore, not allowing them innocence until there's proof.
This is rights violative since now that person is treated like a criminal, and stripped of their rights to their autonomy or to their property regardless of whether they actually committed the crime or not.
In fact, they most likely didn't in the majority of these kinds of situations.
At the point that we still exist in the united states, we don't think that the government just gets to suspend these rights for efficiency's sakes.
If that was the case then you have a special clause in the constitution that said you can become authoritarian when you feel like it.
But we have these kinds of laws in place specifically to protect from authoritarian regimes.
Because sure, right now we're afraid of muslims and isis.
But these kinds of things can become more and more expensive if the justification can be security.
In the end anyone can become a security threat, and the things that you can do in order to protect the security of a certain nation can also become infinite.
We think this kind of slippery slope is incredibly real and we see this in other countries.
That say they host democratic elections but then slowly take away rights to internet, as we see currently in russia, because of security issues and being afraid of hackers and viruses.
Meanwhile what they're actually doing is suspending protesters and anyone who doesn't agree with the current government.
Our third area of clash has to do with why this is uniquely traumatizing and why people ought not be forced to go through it.
If you're innocent getting randomly searched based on your race can be incredibly traumatizing.
Given that not only is this often like it physically obnoxious system in which we're being patted down and touched by a stranger, but it's also humiliating.
Oftentimes you're in front of people you know and you don't want them to see you in that situation, and not only this but you're also often in front of strangers, who you definitely don't want to see you in this situation.
It also teaches children to be afraid like teaches children who are not of that race to be more afraid of that race, and so raises the general fear in society, and it also teaches children of that race to hate themselves a little bit more, given that they are much given that they're being stereotyped and labeled as terrorists and it like basically leads to them not feeling safe within this nation.
For these reasons proud to oppose.