Every time we have a debate about compulsory voting, the the question is always: do we care about the quantity of the votes that come in or do we care about the quality and the thought that people put behind those votes?
This is the central question in this round because, in the end, you can mandate for people to come to the voting booth, but you cannot mandate for them to spend hours researching the candidate or to make sure that they know what they're talking about.
In the end, those who didn't have time before are unlikely to have time now, and so what you're actually creating is a world in which hundreds of people come in, throw a random name into the ballot box, and leave.
Two main areas of clash, the first on why it is unjust to mandate compulsorily compulsory voting.
If it is a right to vote, it should also be a right not to.
This is because a central tenet of democracy is the freedom of an individual to be autonomous and live life as they desire.
As such, it might be preferable if everyone voted, but it is undemocratic to force everyone to vote.
Moreover, we think that it is wrong to make something a legal requirement which we know will unevenly discriminate among the population.
In the same way that there's massive opposition to stop and frisk policies because they are used in a racist and biased way, we think that requiring compulsory voting is the same thing.
Insofar as lowest voter turnout occurs mostly among those in poverty and very often among people of color, who have been forced into poverty by society, we think that when you then say, " if you don't show up, we're going to fine you, even though we stuck you in the same situation, " is completely unjustified and actively discriminatory.
We also want to talk about political speech, because we think that not casting your vote is often a political statement in itself.
If turnout is low, it indicates that none of the candidates were preferable, that they weren't engaging, and that they didn't engage the the like democratic process.
It's then a political statement in itself to say that, " look, I'm not voting because there isn't a good option for me, because I don't think they're representative of my views. "
Insofar as this is, in its way, a like an act of political speech, like a statement of saying, " I do not believe in either of these candidates, " we think it also ought be protected as such.
We think that this is then legitimate, even if not all of them are being political.
As we see, like people are protected in wearing political clothing, although not everyone is making a statement by spouting a big large gun on the front of their shirt or naked women.
Our second area of clash is about being pragmatically problematic.
We don't think, as danny thinks, that you're actually going to change the incentives of politicians, because in the end, those who are going to be voting more now are those who are lower down in society and don't have as much money.
This means larger politicians do not care about them and honestly would still prefer for them to have a difficult time getting to the vote, because who cares if they get fined, they just don't want them voting against them.
So, at the point that they're like not actually creating a meaningful base for politicians, all you're actually creating on their side of the house is a world in which you're going to have a lot more attack ads and a lot more flash campaigning, because now they're going to be directly advertising to people who don't have much time to research.
So a lot more of he he said she said, look how much prettier I am than my candidate.
Like we think that a lot of the time candidates like trump grow because people just only see the social media presence rather than doing the research with regards to their politics, and I think that's actually what you're creating.
Because their side of the house doesn't actually create time bubbles where single mothers can suddenly spend time researching political candidates, rather just says, " go and do it, " you're much more likely to have decisions that are based on snippets.
We also think that fines for those who don't go in further disengage them from the political process and create a financial strain.
Basically it's saying: you're already struggling, let me as like the proxy government make you struggle even more.
This is the best way for them to say, " I don't care about this government.
Not only is it not representing me, but it is actively harming me and forcing me into uncomfortable situations that take away from my life."
But at the end of the day, the candidate is still not going to be representative, even with compulsory voting, because people aren't truly voting for who they believe in.
They're just trying to get out of it.
For these reasons, proud to oppose.