I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should adopt libertarianism.
There are few political ideologies as fundamentally misconstrued and as fundamentally mischampioned as libertarianism.
It is a system which favors the rich and the powerful.
Although the adoption of libertarianism in many ways seems like the adoption of natural forms of power, natural ways of thinking, we would say that all that it does is create a vacuum, where the presently rich and powerful can decide literally every rule that they want for themselves with incredibly little government oversight.
One overview before three reasons why we should not adopt libertarianism.
My overview is very simply that in any western liberal democracy where this kind of debate would ever be possible, the alternatives are liberty and democracy.
Without adopting libertarianism, we can easily adopt a system where every individual gets a say in the government.
Where there's not profound amounts of gerrymandering or abuse, and where there is ample amounts of government intervention and regulation.
In this speech I'm going to show why it is essential that we have the social benefits of government regulation and control, that we need to solve profoundly problematic collective action problems, and thirdly, how the powerful can never regulate themselves.
First off, on social benefits.
The most obvious way in which libertarianism can exert itself in the united states, or a variety of other western liberal governments, is by the immediate removal of social benefits and taxes.
We would say things like welfare, unemployment, social security, are essential in the status quo for helping people survive.
Many people who have already retired could not buy food, housing, any of the necessities, if not for social security.
But even if we only have this debate in the abstract rather than having a debate about the specific people who would literally starve as a result of this policy, we would say that every government has people at the lowest end of society who due to genetic factors, due to historical factors, have been pushed to the bottom and cannot afford the basic necessities.
If the government refuses to provide them, no one else will.
We see that in the status quo, there's already incredible difficulty getting private industry to actually invest in the poorest people in society.
They typically do it because the capitalist incentive of having a tax benefit is also there, and because it's good for PR.
In a system where the government has signaled that social benefits and social welfare are not a key interest and that there is no benefits to corporations, we think that this would also fall.
And at that point, the poorest individuals would have no ability to essentially feed themselves, which is the greatest harm that can be actualized upon them due to government action.
Now, the second argument is that this creates profound collective action problems.
We think things like roads, we think essential emergency services must be solved through collective action.
The alternative is private individuals creating toll roads, decreasing the efficiency of entire societies, creating police forces and fire services, first, making it so they have total power to control individuals by literally refusing them lifesaving services, and secondly, by refusing the poor these services, making their lives even more difficult.
Even in the status quo, it is incredibly expensive to be poor.
And at the point where powerful individuals can charge even more to poor families, we think that the system is fundamentally unjust.
My third argument is the idea of regulation.
You cannot trust individuals to police themselves.
This has been seen throughout history, most recently in the financial sector with two two thousand eight financial crisis, and we think that adopting libertarianism is just giving the power to the individuals who must be policed overall.
We think this leads to inevitable economic destruction such as in two thousand eight, level of abuses by the powerful, and a system which is essentially a vacuum where other powerful actors can take the reins to the harm of all society.
For this reason, we should not adopt libertarianism.