I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should subsidize biofuels.
Although they have the name bio in the name and although many individuals like to pretend as though biofuels are more efficient or better for the environment, most biofuels are actually worse than fossil fuels.
Ethanol in particular which is made from corn leads to massive over use of the corn population and generally leads to many of the same harms as fossil fuels.
When government decides to step in and subsidize it, it disrupts the market and harms the environment as well.
I have two arguments in today's debate.
First, that biofuels are inefficient and secondly, that they are bad for the environment.
On the inefficiency of biofuels, I'm gonna discuss why the market is the best way in which to determine the price of certain goods and why stepping is generally bad.
That the market can capture the vast majority of information prices determine the harms in which certain individuals take to produce a good and the benefits which the consumer gets from consuming that good.
The only time in which we ought to subsidize a particular technology is when there are externalities which cannot be captured.
Recognize that biofuels are are an alternative primarily to fossil fuels but biofuels do not produce generally less CO two or other problematic things than fossil fuels.
What this means is that the government is deciding to subsidize the particular usage of biofuels even though it is really not any better than fossil fuel.
We are paying out of our pocket in order to allow certain people to buy fuel cheaper.
Additionally, convincing individuals to bio this buy this fuel because it's decrease in price will also be bad.
Ethanol is incredibly inefficient.
It's less productive per gallon than your average thing of oil.
Using this sort of biofuel will do little more than harm the environment, disrupt the market, and decrease our quality of life.
Markets are incredibly effective at determining the best good for society writ large and changing that price also harms society.
It will lead to overproduction and over consumption based on what the optimal usage is and the taxpayer will pay for it.
As such, we ought not subsidize biofuel because it is incredibly inefficient in this regard.
Now my second argument is that biofuel is bad for the environment for two main reasons.
First, it is incredibly difficult to make.
When you take into account the environmental costs of growing corn, growing any other kind of fuel, and then changing it into a usable form such that it can be used in cars or in industry, the ultimate cost is incredibly high.
It causes much more CO two, causes much more greenhouse gas emissions, and causes much more environmental degradation than your average production of oil.
Even in cases of fracking, what these biofuels do is leach into the environment and leach in to the environment through the pesticides used to grow them and then cost massive amounts to make in the first place.
The current subsidies of biofuel are incredibly inefficient and have generally been opposed.
The only reason they haven't been absolutely removed is the lobbying power of the agricultural industry and the oil industry which honestly do not have the best interest of the people at heart.
The second reason it's bad for the environment is it removes alternatives.
We think it's incredibly problematic that we remove alternative forms of fuel then biofuel and regular gasoline.
What I mean by this is that the reason we have pushes toward things like tesla or electric cars in general is because of increasing prices of fuel.
Subsidizing biofuel, trying to make it a hip and cheaper alternative to all other forms of transportation will ultimately make it so things like electric cars or hybrid cars will fall in popularity.
This is incredibly problematic because this is the only way that we can decrease our footstep in terms of transportation.
As such, we should not subsidize biofuels.