I stand in firm opposition to the motion, we should introduce a flat tax.
I'm going to break this speech into three parts: firsts, I'm going to discuss the morality of a flat, versus progressive tax, then discuss why progressive taxation is the most utile way to do it, and then thirdly, discuss why customisation is key when it comes to taxes.
First off on morals.
While tim may claim that the wealthy have the only claim to their property, and the government has no right to take that money away, we would fundamentally disagree.
First we don't think a strong link between individuals humanity, and the property that they control, was actually created.
Instead, we think government action and taxes by extension are simply about utility, and that taking property away from individuals is a tradition, that has existed throughout history, and is again fundamental to the construction of any functioning government, and is always essential to helping the most marginalized within a particular community.
Additionally, we would say that the wealthiest got their power on the backs of the poor.
Individuals who are still making a large amount of money employ, typically, huge amounts of poor workers, and depend on poor and middle class individuals to buy their goods, therein creates a reciprocal obligation to pay back the suffering people, who you have manipulated and profited from.
Additionally, individuals who got their money from a historical fund, who whose family has had money going back, typically made their money by stealing, or further oppressing marginalized peoples, and pushing people into poverty.
It is unclear why donald trump, coming from a millionaire family, deserves all this money, when it came on the back of poor individuals, who were pushed out of society, and were essentially pushed into the cycle of poverty, in order to push their family up.
Additionally though, we would say that the claim to property has nothing to do with humanity, is based on, instead on utility.
The reason we don't take everyone's property away, the reason we don't steal people's goods, or take their homes away, and redistribute them evenly, is because we believe that it would lead to less utile outcomes.
If it were possible to evenly distribute all goods, in all situations, and then still have a functioning and profitable society, still have good foreign direct investment, we would do so.
It's simply that this is the most effective, and and pragmatic way to actually do taxes.
Finally, we would say that the rich actually use tax money the most.
Just look at the owner of walmart, the average employee is is on food stamps.
A proportion of their living wage comes from the sort of tax revenue, and as such the rich use it to push themselves in power.
They also use roads the most, because they have the most transportation uses, they ship goods, and largely get the benefit of some of the most effective school systems, through the money that they pay.
Now, going to my substantive material.
We believe progressive taxes are the most utile, because the poorest people have the greatest marginal value of a dollar.
This also extends to the marginal value of a percentage of their income.
If a rich person loses ten percent of their income, they can't buy more caviar, or more fancy food, when a poor person loses a huge percentage of their income, they cannot survive, they cannot buy food, shelter, or basic living conditions.
They can't pay for internet transportation, which is essential for many jobs in twenty first century.
At the point where people will starve, through a flat tax, it is unjust.
Now the second point of substantive material, is that customization is key.
As tim says, the role of government is to incentivize particular action, and to maximize utility.
The ability to have a progressive, and somewhat complicated tax system, allows the government to disincentivize particular action, or otherwise levy fees on individuals who benefit the most from taxes, which as we said, where the wealthiest people.
As such, we believe that we should not introduce a flat tax.