I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should support same-sex marriage.
As a brief overview, I want to say that when we say marriage, we don't mean the collection of tax benefits and other recognition that individuals get from the government and institutions.
We would say that same-sex couples should get the same sort of tax benefits as heterosexual couples.
In the same way, we would say that things like hospitals and insurance programs should provide the same benefits to same-sex couples as they do to heterosexual couples.
However, we think that the label of marriage is reserved for particular couples and particular institutions, that same-sex marriage is fundamentally an oxymoron with this in mind.
Three arguments to support this motion: first, marriage is inherently religious.
Marriage as an institution comes from a long history developed by religious institutions.
It was fundamentally a way in which two individuals of the opposite sex could come together and be married before god.
If you look at marriage vows, around the world, particularly historical marriage vows, they were all about religious individuals coming together before god and making a union.
At the point where these religions fundamentally oppose same-sex marriage, it is unclear why we should enforce the will of the government and enforce the will of these couples against their own religion.
At the point where someone thinks that they are going to hell if they support a same-sex marriage, we think that the utility gained by having a label upon your union versus the disutility which comes from fundamentally violating your religion and violating your community and ignoring the systems of belief that you grew up with, we think it is clear that individuals should be able to refuse to provide same-sex marriages.
In the same way, we would say the government can continue to ban same-sex marriages insofar as marriage, once again, is an inherently religious institution.
If there is a particular community which want to support same-sex marriage, they're going against the teachings of historical religion, and as such are not being true members of that religion.
So we would say that same-sex marriage still would not be religiously permissible.
My second argument is that marriage is also inherently oppressive.
It is a patriarchal system which put women below men and forced individuals into situations that they did probably didn't want to be in.
It took away the autonomy of both partners from splitting from the union and really abandoning their partner when they feel like it would be the most utile.
As such, we would say that marriage is inherently bad.
It promotes problematic norms within society and propagating it by supporting same-sex marriage simply expands these problematic norms even further.
Anti-marriage activists also the anti-same-sex marriage activists insofar as whenever you support marriage, you're supporting a problematic institution which continues to oppress women around the world and largely leads to power imbalances within relationships which we think are inherently problematic.
Our third and final argument is that this is a waste of resources among activists.
Supporting same-sex marriage on a government level will lead to a huge number of people leaving the LGBTQ movement and activist forces.
When schools were desegregated in the south, the civil rights movement lost a huge number of white allies simply because they thought the fight was done.
In the same vein, supporting same-sex marriage and passing same-sex marriage laws means that a huge number of straight activists will leave the community and stop fighting for the goals of LGBTQA people.
As a result, things like trans rights, things like gay homelessness, will continue, and these are far more problematic.
I don't really care if two straight people, excuse me, not two straight people, two gay people can get married, particularly if they're wealthy people, if queer teens are still on the street dying due to homelessness.
As such, we think the harms as a result of losing activists is far greater than the benefits of simply labeling a particular union.
As such, we oppose same-sex marriage.