At a fundamental level the right of asylum is the right to impose.
Although we regret any repression that individuals face as a result of their government or institutions which are powerful within their state, we believe that governments have no obligation to actually provide individuals asylum.
As such, we should limit the right to asylum in all western liberal democracies.
Our model is simple: we believe that western liberal democracies should not allow criminals into the state.
This does not include political crimes, because anyone who is running from their state will likely be guilty of that, but includes violent crimes or even low misdemeanors.
We believe governments should retain the right to refuse these individuals.
Additionally, we believe that asylum seekers should only be brought into the state if they add to the economy or society in some meaningful way.
If a job is already massively overly saturated, immigrants should not be brought in, even if they have been persecuted by their state.
We have two arguments to support this motion: first, on the obligations of government.
The obligations of government are first and foremost to the people within the state.
Their legitimacy is derived from the people because the ancestors of these citizens, either created the state or allowed other individuals into the state who've been deemed appropriate.
Fundamentally all moral legitimacy, any legitimacy which would give the states the power to use violence to do taxation, or to create a military, is derived from the people within that state and not foreign powers.
Additionally, the power of the state is derived from the people.
The the state speaks in terms of money and in terms of military force.
Both of these are derived from the people in the form of taxation and the ability to create and control a military.
As such, a government has no obligations outside of the people within the state.
It is incredibly important to have this sort of vetting, to ensure the prosperity of the people within the state as well.
Recognize that criminals have high recidivism rates, particularly when they commit violent crimes, and individuals who do not have a job or can't get a job, because an over saturation the market occurs, are far more likely to turn to crime.
Additionally, when individuals take jobs from other individuals in a certain western liberal democracy, they're a lot more likely to push those people into crime, and harm the families and communities which create and control the state.
As such governments have to vet the individuals who come in through asylum, and must limit that right.
The second independent argument is that there are people who have waited, or are otherwise more deserving.
Recognize that in most western liberal democracies there's a huge waiting list for immigrants who have applied to get into the state and have simply waited.
Let us evaluate the desert claims between these two groups.
First, on political persecution verses immigrant harms.
If you take the united states as an example, a huge number of immigrants from mexico and south america are running from dire situations of poverty, or running from similar persecution, but have not been recognized by the united states.
Things like cartel violence is far less likely to get you the right to asylum than violence from the state.
So in the vast majority of situations these people have just as many claims to come into a western liberal democracy as individuals who want the the right to asylum.
However, the individuals on the like waiting list have waited a huge amount of time, they've spent they've got the system legally and have otherwise respected the rules and regulations of the people and as such have a greater desert claim to come into the state.
We would further say that no individual who seeks asylum has a right to a particular state and given the variety of states who will accept individuals, and even the non western liberal democracies which will except individuals, they have no, that the right to asylum can be limited legitimately to protect the people within a particular state.
Thank you.