I stand in firm opposition to the motion cannabis should be legalized.
I have two arguments for why cannabis should not be legalized, but first I have a few overviews to address some of will's arguments.
First off on crime and dessert.
When individuals commit a crime they are taking an action against society.
We've elected politicians, we have voted in favor of laws which say that the consumption of cannabis ought to be illegal.
Because the good and rights are idiosyncratic and determined by the society in which actions are taking place, when individuals take actions in opposition to the rules of law they are essentially saying that your interpretation of the good is fundamentally incorrect.
That they ought be outside the law when it is best for them.
We think that individuals who have harms against them after breaking the law do not deserve additional protections from government.
We would say that if illegal guns were on average more dangerous than legal guns, there'd be no reason that the government should expand gun access to individuals who would otherwise be prevented from buying a legal gun.
We think that once individuals have consented to the harms of a legal action by ignoring the rule of law they ought get what is coming to them.
Secondly, I want to say about the idea of oppression and racism.
Cops will always find a reason to oppress black bodies, oppressed black individuals, just look to philando castile.
He literally followed the instructions of the cop to the letter.
He said exactly what he needed to, he admitted he had a gun in the car, as gun rights activists say you ought to do when dealing with a cop, and he was shot until he was dead.
What this means is that the problem of racism is not a problem of any individual policy.
It must be solved through overall broad societal change and a fundamental restructuring of the police system.
Allowing cannabis will not solve this.
We see this in states like oregon, washington, and alaska.
They these states have already had investigations by the department of justice but continue to be racist as it is essentially a symptom of the police system.
Legalizing pot, legalizing cannabis, will not solve this.
Two arguments for why legalizing cannabis is a bad idea.
First off, on international implications.
The united states has pushed its ideas and pushed its policy on the world at large.
States have adopted strong anti-drug policies as a result of the united states influence.
And now it has been pushed into the rule of law in those states and been determined to be the societal good as I discussed in my overview.
What this means is that if the united states abandons this policy, abandons the states which itself has pushed to adopt certain policies, then these states will be massively harmed.
These states depend on united states support, both philosophically and in a lot of cases financially, to stop the usage of drugs and the united states abanding them abandoning them now would be fundamentally unjust.
On cartels, I would like to discuss the idea that cartels will shift to another option, another product, if we legalize coke er excuse me not cocaine cannabis.
They could they could start to sell hard drugs more often, move to things like human trafficking, both of these are terrible options that are far more likely if the cartel has no other option.
The cartel has huge infrastructure put in place to smuggle goods into the united states and will continue these paths even if cannabis is legalized.
As such we should allow them to continue selling cannabis rather than shifting to a more problematic product.
The second argument is about efficiency and happiness.
Autonomy is threatened by cannabis.
When individual smoke their motivation goes down, typically their memory is harmed, this is huge externalities as it can harm the people around you.
Driving under the influence can make it more likely that you'll kill someone, but additionally we believe we can regulate or individual action.
When individuals are told they must wear a helmet or face fines, that is us saying that profoundly illogical individual actions ought be regulated by government.
We think it is both philosophically consistent and essential that government legislate this sort of action and as such cannabis should not be legalized.