I stand in firm opposition to the motion sex education should be mandatory.
Although sex education is very helpful for the vast majority of students who learn it, forcing it down the throats of conservative or otherwise oppositional parents does little more than ostracize particular students and push parents to create worse learning environments for their children.
I have two overviews before two arguments.
My first overview is just addressing the whole of yaar's speech because we do not hear a single reason about why comprehensive sex education is more beneficial than abstinence only or other forms of sex education.
At the point where we don't get a meaningful benefit to sex education it is impossible to vote in favor of making it mandatory.
Essentially, forcing the government to use violence or other methods of enforcing a particular ideology upon schools.
Now my second overview is just addressing what the status quo actually is because in every single moderate place, in every single place that is liberal, we see comprehensive sex education.
The vast majority of states and municipalities have accepted comprehensive sex education as the best form for their children.
However, certain areas have accepted that abstinence only will be more effective.
There are nuances which can only be appreciated by those individuals from the district in which we are making the decision.
Pushing a unnuanced and universal ideology upon these people will likely have disastrous repercussions but the main purpose of this overview is simply saying in the places where sex education would go off without a hitch, it is already occurring.
In all others, the two arguments I'm about to make, will be actualized.
First, I want to address the role of schools.
For many students sex education makes them uncomfortable.
Whether it's a religious opposition, whether it's a personal opposition, when they are taught sex education they feel unsafe in the area that they're in and are less likely to learn effectively.
The result of this is that they are less likely to do well in school.
If you feel like your school is pushing a particular ideology, you are likely to rebel morally and ideologically against other teachings.
If you feel unsafe or uncomfortable in the classroom it's more difficult to focus.
At the point where you cannot teach other essential essential topics such as math, english, literature, pushing the a certain subject at the detriment of all of the others does little more than create a political system for schools which does not serve the genuine purpose of schools which is educating their students.
Now my second argument is how parents will respond to sex education.
For many parents sex education is a deal breaker.
When a teacher tells their student this is the best way to have sex, this is the appropriate way to have sex, the result is that parents will rebel.
This can occur in a few ways.
First, in many areas they're less likely to volunteer or help their school in general.
For many schools that you don't have a lot of money and do not have a lot of support from their district, they need parent volunteers to be effective.
Pushing parents out of the classroom telling them that they are not welcome because their ideology does not fit that of the schools, will harm the whole of the the school and generally lead to worse education but we will also see wide scale exoduses away from these or from these schools.
You'll see many parents putting their child in home schooling or an alternative private school as a result of this sort of policy.
This is problematic on two fronts.
First, if wealthier parents, those who can afford to put their students in other schools decide to take them out of public schools, there'll be major political shift away from public schools to private schools which will decrease funding for public schools forcing education further.
Additionally, all those students who do not have parents who can afford to put them home schooling, will face far worse education leaving them destitute and essentially without a future.
This is the greatest harm that can be actualized upon these students and is it is not worth keeping some students sex education if others will be left out in the dry.
For this reason, sex education should not be mandatory.