I stand in firm opposition to the motion we should end cheerleading.
Cheerleading is a sport just like any other.
It has inherent value insofar as it allows young women and men in some cases to get outside, exercise, express themselves artistically.
My opponent tries to tell you that cheerleading is inherently sexualized but it's unclear why cheerleading is anymore sexualized than dance, gymnastics, or any other sport which sponsors women or features women in a way that does not require them to have full physical contact or to throw a ball through a hoop.
To that end, we think that people being able to choose cheerleading, giving someone an option for what they want to do will always be beneficial.
This is my first argument, the value of individual preference because cheerleading would be bad if we forced every individual to do it.
If I had no choice in the matter and had to be a cheerleader, I would very likely dislike it.
Whoever, it is simply one of a myriad of options which we allow to young people in high school or even sometimes middle school.
This means the individuals who choose to go into cheerleading are those who have determined it will give them the greatest amount of benefits, those who have a clear preference for this.
The only clear moral system we can derive is one in which we value individual preference.
We cannot express that there is some god above who gave us rights or preferences because that would inherently contradict other individual's religions and there's no way we could make a cohesive system out of it.
Similarly, we can't say that the state is wholly just in all of its actions because we think that it is equally fallible to the individual.
To that end, the only system in which there is true universal value is one in which we give individuals preference and allow them to follow their preferences.
By giving individuals the option of cheerleading, we inherently support this moral system and allow individuals to self-actualize more effectively.
But my next two arguments are about how cheerleading has inherent value even if we were to say force everyone to do it.
My next argument is about the value of athleticism.
In the united states particularly, we think obesity is a massive problem.
As time goes on more and more young people suffer from being overweight or obese due in large part to a lack of physical activity.
When the only option available to individuals it's full contact sports or essentially being on the computer all day, we think individuals will ultimately make bad decisions.
We think that full contact sports are regularly dangerous things like rugby, football, are very likely to cause long term damage particularly if individuals get concussions and sitting in front of the computer all day inherently makes individuals less healthy as they spend less time on their feet actually developing their muscles.
By allowing cheerleading we allow individuals a better avenue for athleticism, allow them to learn how to throw other people, become more flexible, and generally just be healthier.
My final argument is the value of art because we think that cheerleading just like gymnastics and dance is a form of art.
Individuals come together and form routines which are very regularly intricate.
They put incredible thought into this and ultimately are very impressive when they actually go on display.
We think that cheerleading then is one of the most pure forms of art as it allows individuals to soar through the air in a way that is simply not available in other avenues.
We think that the value of art comes from individuals individual preference first off, but also simply the miraculous, the splendid.
We think that cheerleading falls into this category because it allows individuals to go beyond the regular means by working as a group and doing something truly miraculous.
For this reason, we should not end cheerleading.