I stand firm opposition to the motion: we should introduce covenant marriages.
As an overview, I want to discuss what this motion is actually doing.
Because people can still have covenant marriages but they cannot be recognized by the government.
It is unclear why two evangelical individuals need the government's accommodation to force them into these covenant marriages.
If two people continue with their evangelical beliefs and truly believe that their marriage ought not be disrupted, than they can simply not get a divorce.
They can have a non binding agreement to have a covenant marriage.
However when government steps in, it truly removes any option from harmed parties while also pushing government into religion and religion into government.
It is terrible to set a precedent in which religious individuals can pass their traditions into law.
This is the sort of reason why queer individuals, particularly in the united states, were oppressed.
Evangelicals were able to put their belief into law and pass anti sodomy laws, and then pass anti gay marriage laws, which made it so queer individuals were oppressed by the state.
At this point there is very little utility to be gained by the government recognizing the sort of marriage, but very clear precedent for profound harm.
Additionally though, we have two more arguments to show why covenant marriages are bad.
First off on future rights - it is unjust to sign away your future rights in such a drastic agreement.
There are three conditions in which future rights can be signed away in a meaningful way: first, that these future rights will come back after a particular expiration date that is not incredibly far off.
Covenant marriages are intended to last until death.
The inability for these contracts to simply go away or expire means that these people have signed away their rights in perpetuity.
It is unclear if they will hold the same religious belief or hold the same love that push them into the marriage, and as such they are oppressing their future selves.
Secondly though, unpredictability.
There is literally no predictability when going into a marriage.
People change when you live with them, people change when you have a child with them, people change when you've just spent enough time with them.
It is impossible to predict what will happen after a marriage, and as such there's not good predictability.
When people sign contracts traditionally, it is with a great understanding and a huge amount of work which allows the law to step in were certain conditions met.
Even if conditions were written into the covenant marriage which allows them to get out of it if they're say being abused, these can always be hidden as I'll discuss my next argument.
Finally though, the another way you can sign away your future rights is if there is profound utility from the having this contract in place.
But as I already discussed, individuals could have a covenant marriage between them but do not need the government to recognize it and otherwise restrict the rights of one or both parties.
At this point there is no reason why the government should step in and allow people to oppress themselves or oppress their spouses using a covenant marriage.
The second argument I'd like to put forward though, is that leverage is important in the sort of relationships.
In abusive relationships, divorce is an an incredibly important form of leverage to get a party out of that marriage.
When individuals live in an abusive household, they live under a condition of profound stress which at times can be akin to torture.
The government has an obligation not to torture enemy combatants, so it very clearly has an obligation to its own citizens, to let them get out of torturous situations.
Very briefly I'd like to address the point of children.
Because, while tim is right that living in a household with a good marriage is preferable to living with divorced parents, it is clearly preferable to live with divorced parents than a terrible marriage where people are shouting all the time and giving their children anxiety or other conditions.
As such, we oppose covenant marriages.