We should close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
So, we want to be clear about how we think this is going to occur.
There are still dozens of the individuals that are that are interned in guantanamo bay, and we're going to have two main prongs to our model.
The first is that if trials are possible, if there's enough evidence that someone could even feasibly go to trial, we would put these people on trial, we would do this in a civilian rather than a military court, because we think there are there's more openness, there's more opportunity for people to get a fair defense in the civilian court, and therefore we think that this is only just, especially given that these individuals are for the most part not military members.
And secondly, if there isn't enough evidence to even bring these individuals to trial, we would say that they would just be returned to their homes, will be given will be put back into their home country and they would be allowed to go free.
Ok.
Two main arguments.
The first is on morality, and the second is on legalism and international relations.
So on morality.
We think that most prisoners in guantanamo bay are currently held without substantial evidence to charge them, or any sort of real reason that they are in there.
They didn't deserve the internment that they're currently experiencing, and on top of the fact that they are being detained, which in and of itself is unjust, the conditions of their detainment is simply inhumane and what this means is that people are denied basic human rights, and are given are subject to things such as torture that go against major international law, and go against our fundamental moral code.
We think that, from a deontological framework, human beings are not deserving of this kind of inhumane treatment, and this can be seen as codified in liberal democracies across the world.
And even if you want to take on a utilitarian framework of morality, torture is shown time and again to be an ineffective means of getting information from people, of getting information that could stop terrorist attacks or things of this nature, and given that there's no real gain to torturing and detaining these individuals in this prison, we don't think that there's any sort of moral justification to leave them interned.
But the second thing we want talk about is the international relations surrounding guantanamo bay, and why it's so problematic for the united states.
So firstly, the united states, over its history, has constructed a large amount of the current international law such that exists in the world, such as the geneva conventions and certain human rights conventions that have been signed onto by the united states.
We would say that in a world in which guantanamo bay exists, the united states loses the moral high ground that allows it to enforce those international laws.
It means that when american citizens and american civilians are detained by states that these people are subject to torture and are subject to poor treatment by these states, and this means that in having guantanamo bay, without any sort of positive gains from it, it puts americans at risk of the inhumane treatment that we cause to others.
It also angers many people in the international world from individuals from individual countries in europe, which if you are a human rights treatment is abhorrent, to middle eastern and north african countries whose citizens are subject to detainment in guantanamo bay.
This means that in that individual countries are less likely to want to work with the united states in the international sphere, and it means the united states loses much of its standing abroad.
Finally, we think that guantanamo bay, for the most part, serves as propaganda for terror cells in the status quo.
Terrorists can point to guantanamo bay to show that this the united states doesn't care about human rights, it doesn't care about civilians that aren't their own civilians, and they can paint the united states as this great evil, and show the factual evidence of guantanamo bay as a site where torture routinely takes place and human rights are routinely ignored.
Given that it causes immense international harms, and that morally guantanamo bay is repugnant and unjustifiable, we should close the guantanamo bay detention camp.