We should abolish the united nations security council veto power.
So in the status quo, the united nations has five members of the security council that are permanent and have veto power.
The rest of the members alternate on I believe yearly basis, but they they rotate amongst people or member states of the UN, aside from the united states, russia, great britain, china and france.
These are the four nations that have veto power on the UN security council.
We think that we should take away that veto power from those nations and instead, should institute a system in which two thirds two thirds vote by the security council would allow for action to be taken, military action or intervention to be taken by the security council.
This would also allow them to send cases to the ICC.
In the status quo, again, this needs to get past a get get past a veto, which we don't think should be the case anymore.
So, why do we think that this is necessary?
We think that the security council is entirely marred by inactivity and inaction in the status quo, and the reason for that is that political interests, specifically from china, russia and the united states, prevent action in these instances, because they have vested interests in maintaining their sphere of influence and control over specific reasons regions.
For example, syria is something that simply cannot be acted on by the united nations because russia has vested oil interests and other types of interests in the assad regime.
Also in the case of places like north korea, china refuses to allow the united nations to intervene.
They would never allow some sort of referenda to pass the security council, and we think that this goes against the purpose of the UN.
The UN is meant is meant to foster global cooperation between powers both large and small.
We think there's there's that there's a long history of of imperial oppression, and the UN existed to try and solve for that, to ensure that there was some sort of equalizing of the playing field in international relations.
The UN places power disproportionately through the security council in imperial interests, which means that in the instances in which these major superpowers in the world align in their interests and choose to go after small nations, these are oftentimes nations that are the least protected and already the ones that are most harmed by former imperial interaction.
We also think that if you ever want to be able to go after powerful states to enforce the regulations on things like human rights and other things that the UN exists to foster, things like protecting geneva convention rights and protecting innate human rights through referenda and treaties that exist between states, we think the only way you can ever get that type of protection, especially on large states like china or russia, is to remove the veto power that they currently have.
We think that in practice, this has been a horrible system that protects despots like those in syria and north korea.
It protects superpowers that systemically abuse human rights, whether it's individuals that are gay in russia or individuals who are minority and black in the united states.
We think that no action can ever be taken against these superpowers by an international body, by the body that is supposed to regulate these human rights abuses, that is the UN, if these countries maintain their veto power.
We think force would be more likely in those situations.
Even in those instances where a few interests contradict, we think that even if you're not going to be able to go out against the united states or china anytime soon, it's still preferable to have UN resolutions that ensure that the violence that is currently being done in places like north korea and syria, instances in which lives are daily on the line, we think that these are instances in which the UN has an obligation to act, and the current system doesn't allow for that possibility.
And for these reasons, we should abolish the united nations security council veto power.