We should not legalize same sex marriage.
So, we want to be very clear in this debate, we're fine with allowing for civil partnerships between a same sex couple.
We're fine with giving same sex couples equal rights in in the legal realm, equal protections, equal visitation rights, the ability to raise children together, we don't think that same sex couples should be barred from starting a family together, and giving the legal recognition, that such a family in such a structure deserves to be granted with.
What we would say principally, is that the state itself should not be involved in marriage at any level.
We would say that marriage is, historically, a patriarchal and religious tradition, that is firstly, an outdated means of giving away a woman to a man for for a property exchange, but more importantly, it's an inherently religious service.
Recognize, that for the vast majority of history, the state didn't come together to wed two groups of people, it was churches, it was religious institutions, that would do these things, and we think that that is where marriage should be.
We think it's fine to have civil partnerships in at the state level, we think it's fine for individuals to conjoin their assets in the way that marriage allows them to do, all those legal aspects of marriage can be done without giving it the label of marriage, without giving it that religious connotation, that we think is so problematic in the status quo, and is the real reason that people are same sex couples are denied access to this thing in the status quo.
But, even if it seems hateful, we think that religions should have the freedom to do what they see as necessary, to follow their faith, as long as it doesn't allow for people to have a lower level, or a lower quality of life, and we think that if you allow same sex couples to access the same legal protections, that a married couple otherwise would, we don't think that there's a major detraction to same sex couples, as far as their quality of life is concerned.
So, we think religious freedom is crucial.
Religion allows if you allow for religious interference in this instance, in in this occasion, we think it will inevitably lead to future marginalization of religious communities.
We think that what you're ultimately going to get is that you have a state that is willing to back religions that back the vast majority of individuals, and that marginal religion, and marginal communities, are likely to be stamped out.
We think that that's problematic, because we think that faith and religion are crucial to one's identity.
They not only give you an understanding of your place in the world, and the after life, and all these things, but they also give you moral power, they give you the the moral ideas that you hold with you in your life, and they allow you to make decisions in difficult situations.
All of these things are crucial, and yes, while some of these things may be based on outdated notions, that liberals don't agree with, we don't think that it means that people don't receive value from these things, and that they're inherently problematic.
We think we think that if a faith doesn't allow this type thing, you shouldn't force them to do these things.
We think that the only legitimacy that the government has, as far as dictating religions, is that it forces religious individuals in the public sphere to treat other individuals with an equal amount of respect, as they would to another religious individual.
We don't think that that amount of respect in in order to achieve that amount of respect, you necessarily need to ensure that people are able to have the same sex marriage.
We think that giving them equal legal and political accountability, equal political rights, and equal recognition, even if you don't put the name of marriage onto it, creates a balance between the religious freedom, that these institutions deserve to have and the protections that same sex couples also need to have.
And for these reasons, we should not legalize same sex marriage.