We should not further exploit unconventional oil.
We think that in the status quo there are many avenues of clean energy that are being developed and other opportunities that we think unconventional oil simply crowds out and that we think is unnecessary.
So we're going to talk about two main things.
We're going to talk about why unconventional oil is simply bad for the environment, and why that matters more than anything else, and then we're going to talk about alternative methods of getting energy and why those are preferable.
Okay so recognize that alternate methods of oil are the least clean ways of extracting oil.
Going to things like sands and using fracking are both incredibly difficult in the status quo, which means the method of the of extraction both requires the use of energy in order to extract at a higher rate than other types of energy extraction, but also have the most impact on local ecology.
You need to do drilling, you need to do types of things that ruin the habitats of animals that exist in these areas, oftentimes in areas that have already been decimated by the impacts of climate change.
So what are the two impacts of these bad things?
First it destroys local ecosystems.
When you destroy local ecosystems we think that there are massive long term ramifications in the area.
If you desolate an ecosystem and if you desolate a habitat it means that many species can be put at risk, it means that the entire environment of the area could change, which could have ramifications on on everything from agriculture in the area, to weather in the area, to basically people's standard of living in these areas.
We don't think that this is worth it, to extract more dirty energy.
The other thing that can happen, which often happens, especially with methods like fracking, is polluting the water supply.
When you pollute a water supply, especially in some areas that are simply already at risk of losing water at losing access to clean water, especially with global warming decreasing the level of access to clean water across the globe, we think that what's likely to happen is that the people in these areas are going to suffer because of because of unconventional oil.
It means their access to clean water goes down, and this is a basic necessity that these people need in order for their survival.
And we don't think that it's necessary to adopt these types of these types of energy.
We simply think that in the status quo we are on the path that is unsustainable.
That global warming is an inevitability that we need to try and stop right now before you reach a further tipping point.
We think that even if you are able to get unconventional oil in a clean way, even if you're able to do it without destroying ecosystems, you're only adding to the problem in the status quo.
You're only allowing for more dirty energy to be produced, which we think is is unacceptable, and is only going to lead to dramatic harms for the future of society for future people and even for people in the status quo.
We think that this isn't worth it, especially given the alternatives that exist.
So recognize that alternative clean methods of energy are becoming incredibly and increasingly cheap and viable.
Things like solar wind and hydro technology are becoming more and more efficient every year, and as they become more efficient these methods also become cheaper, which is why we've seen the rise in solar technology not just in the united states but also in more developing nations like china, because it's becoming even more efficient and even more worthwhile to use.
Given that these other methods of technology exist and that even if they may be expensive in the status quo, there are also avenues for more innovation.
The innovation surrounding green technology, surrounding things like wind and solar energy, are simply more innovative than using oil.
Using the same energy methods that we've been using for the past hundred years.
For the past two hundred years.
We think that when you even if it means you need to subsidize these other type of energies, it means you're likely to get more innovation and you're guaranteed not to increase pollution.
Not only are these energies very useful for emissions rates that they lower CO_2 emissions, but they're also really environmentally friendly for local habitats.
You don't need to destroy an entire ecosystem in order to collect sunlight or wind from a certain area.
Given that these clean technologies are increasingly becoming efficient, we simply do not think it is necessary, nor do we think it is worthwhile, to exploit further unconventional oil.
We think that we would rather use methods that aren't going to do in the future of our planet, that aren't going to doom future societies, and for these reasons we should not further exploit unconventional oil.