We should introduce recall elections.
So, to begin, we're going to give a model of how we think this would look, and then we're going to explain the principle that this is based on, before explaining how the pragmatic benefits would accumulate, if we introduced recall elections.
Okay, so, we think that recall elections are generally going to take place at the state level, we don't think that it is feasible to have a national recall election, but at least at the state level, we think it would be initiated via a petition of twenty percent of registered voters in the area of the representative.
So, what this means is that if some state if constituents of that person want to recall them, they would need to get a petition of twenty percent of the population that is registered to vote.
Which means that, if you're child, you couldn't sign this petition, if you're not registered to vote you couldn't sign this petition, and this is so that you ensure that those that have a stake in the election are those that can have a stake in the recall.
Okay, so we think that the principle behind this is very simple: we think that democracy, while it is certainly flawed, is the best way to aggregate the preferences of the people.
We think that term lengths are, in and of themselves, arbitrary, and that allowing recall elections, allows for people not to be bound by these terms lengths.
We think that this is incredibly important, because oftentimes these term lengths ensure that individuals that become incredibly unpopular, elected officials with approval ratings below thirty percent, below forty percent, people that simply don't have the trust of the public, continue to stay in office.
We think that this is problematic, and while in some instances, we think that there may be a misuse of judgment, by those that are recalling the person, in the vast majority of instances, we think when people would be recalled, these are legitimate instances, in which that person is failing in their role as a as a representative of the people, because they no longer represent the popular will of those that elected them.
So, we think that there are some massive pragmatic gains that come from this, in instances where there could be a recall.
First, we think that there are instances in which elected officials are corrupt, and what this means is that when you recall these people, you ensure that you're moving corrupt officials from office, and these are often instances in which there isn't enough evidence that this person would go to jail, or a legal process would be much longer than a recall process.
We think that recall can ensure that corrupt officials are removed from office, which is crucial to avoid an abuse of power.
We also think that the potential of recall always holds elected officials to the fire.
Means that, you know that you're not safe, and you're not bound to your term, but rather if you are doing a poor job, if you're acting in a way in which individuals, that you are representing, do not approve of what you're doing, you can be removed from office.
And this is important, because oftentimes elected officials will behave in ways that go against their constituents, but because the the public memory is a very short term thing, what this results is people shifting their position, once an election becomes closer, and these individuals end up winning reelection.
But, we think that this only involves a cycle of abuse, in which people are able to abuse the fact, that the public is not able to be constantly vigilant, and constantly aware, and they're not able to recall.
What this means is that, if you have recall elections for the entirety of the term, people are more likely to be representative of their constituents, rather than them shifting to be representative when it comes time to have an election again.
We simply think that a direct democracy leads to a more satisfied constituency, it leads to a voting body that is more likely to be happy with the actions of their elected officials, and it ensures that in those cases, in which those elected officials have clearly failed to represent their people, the people that voted them into office, we think that recall elections are invaluable tool.
And for these reasons, we should introduce recall elections.