We should not abolish the US electoral college.
So, while people may be with an uproar given that the two of the last five presidential elections resulted in a result in which the popular vote winner did not win the electoral college and therefore, did not become president of the united states, we think that it's important to take a step back and recognize that there's no correct way for the US democracy to function.
Majoritarianism isn't necessarily the best way for the government to to function, for the best way for people to make decisions and in fact, majoritarianism has historically been a way in which marginalized groups have been oppressed, in which tons of violence and state violence has occurred against marginalized groups, and we think that there is no correct way for the democratic system to work.
And there's no system that's going to be entirely democratic, because it's always necessarily going to be the case that some voices are marginalized and some voices are ignored.
We think you need to do is the united states government is present an option in which the country, as a whole, is as represented by the election results as as possible.
We think the popular vote leads to leads to control simply by urban areas, at the expense of rural areas.
We think that what you would end up seeing is an a a presidential election in which candidates only spend their time in urban areas, they only spend their time in cities, and people in rural areas are never going to be able to have their voices heard.
We think that that's simply not fair.
We think that all american individuals should be valued equally by the president.
We think that is the only government official that exist to represent the government or the the country as a whole.
We think that that person should be forced to recognize the the issues of rural and urban, of coastal states and of internal states of all of these groups, and we think that the US electoral college best does or best insures that that's the case.
So, we have a few reasons why we think the electoral college is good.
The first is that it corrects for a lack of big state control of the senate by giving more weight to those big states.
What this means is that the electoral college insures that big states are given a greater weight even though in the senate, those states are given the same weight as everyone else.
So it's a balancing factor.
It's a system of the checks and balances that were created internally to the US government.
It'll it ensures that those big states get greater representation in a way that they otherwise don't in the senate, which means that in the highest office, those states are balanced out by the fact that in the senate, they don't get as much of a voice as many think they should.
Furthermore, it allows for swing states to get to put issues on the table that otherwise never would've been able to.
So we think that, for example, ohio, in an election which only the popular votes matter, is not going to be a state that gets very much attention, but every four years, it gets a ton of attention through the US electoral college because it's a swing state.
What this means is that these interior rust belt states, these states, such as ohio and indiana and virginia, states that otherwise wouldn't get a lot of attention because they don't have big urban centers, get attention, and it ensures that those issues get to the national stage.
It means that people that are otherwise largely ignored by the political elite get their voices heard, and we think that's crucial, especially in a time where political elitism is running at a higher level than ever.
Finally, we think it insures transregional appeal of the president.
As I said, the presidential office is the only office in US government that is elected by the whole country.
What this means is that that person needs to have appeals, not just to california and new york and the urban elites that live in those coastal areas, but to all people.
The the president of the united states is the president of new york and the president of iowa and the president of montana and as such, even if they don't win the electoral college in every single state, you're more likely to result with a president that has a transregional appeal than you otherwise would if you simply allowed for the popular vote, to ensure that seventy percent of californians and seventy percent of new yorkers end up deciding who's going to be president of the united states.
That's not fair to those inside of the country, that's not fair to the vast majority of americans and for this reason, we should not abolish the US electoral college.