We should disband asean.
In the status quo asean is a system of southeast asian nations organizing into a system that allows for economic progress, growth and trade for the whole region.
It allows for unification between the region in making economic and localized decisions.
We think that both the structure and the pragmatic outcomes of what we've seen from asean are not good, and that it should be disbanded because of that.
Firstly, the structural flaws that make even the concept of this type of union problematic in the way that it currently exists.
Firstly, it ties nations to the economic growth of others, which we think especially in developing countries like those in southeast asia is incredibly problematic, firstly, because these developing nations often have the most tumultruous economies, which means that if one nation goes down, it's likely going to drag down the development of other nations, and secondly, it means that you can't have as much specialization and diversity in in and what these countries are doing when they're all following similar labor standards.
But more importantly, the method of making decisions only through consensus in the asean, which means that any big differences and changes that need to be made to political or economic decisions which are likely to occur in an ever changing world that's based on a technological revolution that is changing what the markets look like on a day to day basis, we think that this type of oaky and saturated system in which every country needs to agree on what is best is only going to hold every country back.
It's going to make them less able to adapt to a changing environment, economic environment in the future, and we think that this only makes these countries more vulnerable to exploitation in the long run.
But the second problem is how asean actually behaves, because in the status quo, asean services a front that allows countries to protect themselves from the human rights and labor abuses that exist.
For example, in the status quo, there are massive human rights abuses in places like myanmar and in other countries in southeast asia, for example, a boat was being sent between two different countries in southeast asia that carried refugees from myanmar in recent in recent months, in which no country was willing to take these people, in which no country was willing to take these people in, and every country created this atmosphere and created an environment in which this type of practice was unacceptable.
Further, actual slaughters and human rights abuses, real murders, real harms are occurring to the people in these countries.
The governments of these of many of these countries are dictatorial in nature, and are impressing the people that exists in these regions.
When these countries close each other off from outsiders and allow for themselves to focus within their own economic sector, their own political sector through the asean, it makes these countries less susceptible to the influences of other voices, moderating force such as the united states and the european union, that may be that may help protect people from these human rights abuses in the status quo.
We think that the best way to protect these people is to disband this network that allows for the protection of abuses as they exist in the status quo, and we think that that is incredibly important, that that is the most important because it ensures that people on the ground, the real people that are impacted by the economic policies of asean, are not being harmed in the process.
And finally, on labor.
Labor practices in these countries are are also incredibly problematic, and it makes it, because these are all a regional area, makes it very difficult for labor to move from nation to nation when the labor standards in each country are so deplorable.
When people aren't able to move out of their country and find better labor standards across the across the border, aren't able to move to any reasonable place to find better labor standards, it allows every country to lower its labor standards, which not only harms the people that exist, but also it decreases the level of productivity in these economies, which has a second secondary negative effect on these countries.
Given that the system of asean itself is horribly bloated, and that the impacts only allow for abuses of the people, we think we should disband asean.