Bullfighting should not be banned.
In this round we're going to make to main arguments: the first is that we would say that animals do not have rights, and they certainly don't have rights to the extent that protects them from being killed, and the second is that people should be allowed to take risks, in that risk aversion and trying to maximize the length of one's life is not the only metric of a good life lived.
Okay so on animals and animal rights: we would say that rights rather than being some ethereal thing that is defined by the universe around us are rather just a social construct made by humanity.
That when we came together in societies there were certain ideas and certain protections that people viewed as necessary in order for them to have a reasonably good livelihood.
And those are what we choose to deem as rights.
Animals are simply not a part of this construct.
They're not something that we take into account when we choose what are the preferences that people would hold.
For example, we don't think of what the preferences of a pig are and try to give that pig a certain degree of control over how we form the system of rights.
We form it with the idea of what humans need in mind, and we also have certain tenants that make those rights capable of being upheld that animals cannot respect, and therefore extending rights to those animals doesn't make sense.
The first is that animals cannot internalize the value of rights.
Part of rights being part of the value of rights themselves is not the idea that it allows you to have this protection, to have these freedoms, but to know that you have those freedoms and to make choices for yourself and to make decisions for your life and your future with those protections in mind.
For example I know that I have the right to reasonable trial or a trial by a jury of my peers and a right to be protected in court, all these types of things.
These rights allow me to make decisions with the idea that I won't be unjustly prosecuted for taking some sort of act that the government may not entirely approve of, but something that isn't illegal.
And this allows me to make choices in the future based on that understanding.
Animals don't have this ability and therefore much of the value of rights go away.
Secondly and most importantly animals cannot reciprocate those rights.
The only way that rights have power within a society is when all of us choose to reciprocate those obligations and those rights unto those around us.
The reason that the right to life has become so valuable is because most of the vast majority of people choose to acknowledge that that right is important and respect that claim to rights from other people.
I choose not to kill others in part because I do not want to set up a norm system where people could kill me.
Look, at the end of the day bullfighting kills a bull in just a more entertaining way than the slaughter house, but it the end result is the exact same.
And if you think that the slaughter house is okay, if you think that animals can be slaughtered to feed people, and if you think that the system of rights that we have requires a reciprocation to be upheld, clearly the extent of animal rights that banning bullfighting would require do not exist and should not exist.
Okay, so now let's talk about the safety of people.
Firstly, it's simply not that dangerous to be a bull fighter.
It's very rare for a bullfighter to die or be seriously injured while doing this task.
And if they do harm themselves this is a risk they can take on without third party harms.
So my choice to making risky decision on my behalf to be a bullfighter doesn't directly harm anyone else in my general vicinity.
It's not setting up a risk onto other people that couldn't consent and that risk.
Given that, I am able to fully consent and fully, with knowledge that I could be harmed, choose to be a bull fighter.
We think that it is fair to seek out thrill, to seek out excitement, to seek out a cultural practice rather than to be simply choosing to be maximally risk averse, which is what the protectionism of this idea, the protectionism of this ban would demand.
It is not the case that animals hold the rights that require this to be banned, is not the case that humans need to have this decision made for them and that life must be maximized in all terms.
For these reasons, bullfighting should not be banned.