We should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.
So we have two main arguments they we're gonna make in this debate.
The first is about the usefulness of guantanamo bay and the second is about the problems that arise if we were to take this type of action, and why these two things combined outweigh any sort of argument in favor of the protections of people within guantanamo bay.
So firstly, on usefulness.
So many people complain that this type of detention center goes against international law, goes against united states laws, about procedural law, right to trial, right to a trial by peers, all these types of things, and so we're gonna deal with those arguments first about why we think the usefulness exists and why these laws don't apply.
So on laws in the united states - firstly it's clearly the case that as these are not US citizens they don't have the same rights embodied within the constitution not applied to them.
These are rights that are only guaranteed to US citizens and therefore those arguments don't really come into play in this debate.
But more importantly on international law - recognize that the state first has an obligation to its citizens.
While international law and treaties that the treaties that compose international law are just and are useful in things such as war and international cooperation, the state has a foremost obligation to protect its citizens and in keeping people in guantanamo bay, these are people that are overwhelmingly dangerous actors who, let's recognize, you're dealing primarily with extremists who aren't going to respect the laws of war that are governing how we are how we ought to treat them.
If these individuals aren't willing to reciprocate the obligations of those treaties, if they aren't willing to reciprocate those obligations and the norms of international law, we think they are willing a world in which those same rights are not given to them.
Because of this we think that any argument that's made about international law making guantanamo bay a bad center, something that unjustly restricts the rights of these individuals, we think they have created that world through their extremist actions and because of that are not deserving of these rights.
We it also recognized as useful simply in the fact that it allows for the containment very dangerous people.
Even if not, even if there isn't obvious legal evidence because legal procedure and the proceedings that prove guilt in a court aren't always available to show that these people are guilty, there's often overwhelming evidence against these people in other regards.
And even if it is the case that these people are not always the guilty individuals that we believe they are, given the fact that these people, when they are guilty, are likely individuals that are going to carry out incredibly damaging and incredibly violent acts, we think it is the obligation of the united states to take the risk to contain these individuals.
So secondly we wanna talk about the problems with release.
So what do we think would happen if we were to take this?
So, most of the people that are in guantanamo bay, as I just pointed out, are incredibly dangerous.
Which means if you would have a trial in public, that trial would become an incredibly obvious target for violence.
We think that extremists and other terrorist organizations would rally around that individual event to make some sort of statement.
To show the the flaws in the legal system in the united states, to create some sort of propaganda moment, we think that this is an incredibly obvious target and we think it would likely involve individuals who are innocent, people that are citizens of the state, being hurt.
Secondly, most prisons simply don't want to have these targets.
They can't ensure the safety of these people when they are in prisons because of the high profile nature of them as criminals, as extremists.
We think they're likely to have violence put against them within jail and we think that prisons simply don't want to take them.
And finally there's an obvious harm of returning them to their home country.
If you release them, if you let them go back to their home countries, it allows them to go back to the activities that led to them being in guantanamo in the first place.
We think that this ensures that there are more extremists in the world that are likely to take damaging acts, violent acts against united states' citizens.
The job of the united states government is first and foremost to protect its citizens and we believe that guantanamo bay does a better job of that if it were not to exist.
For these reasons we should not we should not close the guantanamo bay detention camp.