We should ban human cloning.
So we think it's simply the case that there are a massive amount of risks that come with allowing human cloning that come with allowing people to clone themselves or for corporations to clone other people with very little gains that can come from this.
Recognize that the process of cloning can still be tested under this model through other animals, that you can still produce organs in a number of ways.
In fact, organ production, human organ production is already being done in a number of different ways through a number of different methods that don't involve human cloning.
We simply think that is the case that there's no real game.
So why do we think that's the case?
If you create human agents you should treat that human agent as such.
What that means is that if you were to create a clone than that clone should be given the full rights of any other human agent simply by the nature of their humanity.
Just because they are a the same genetic makeup of another human being doesn't mean that they can't internalize the harms that will be placed upon them such as that other human being.
It doesn't mean that they don't have the right to their own autonomy, their own agency.
It doesn't mean that because they're derived from a method other than natural birth that they aren't still a human and deserve the rights that come with that.
What this means is that any if you were to create a human clone that human should be created as a new free individual but this is an incredibly costly process and given that the outcome of that costly process would be essentially the same outcome of giving birth we simply don't see any massive benefit to doing this.
Maybe there are scientific advancements you can gain but we don't see what scientific advancements you gain particular specifically through human cloning that you wouldn't be able to gain through learning about how cloning works in other organisms and other animals.
There's nothing about human biology that is so unique that we couldn't learn or get scientific breakthroughs through other methods of cloning but what you do get is you don't create a new human agent when you do cloning through other species.
We think other scientific knowledge knowledge can be gained from cloning animals but we simply don't think the massive cost of cloning a human is worth the outcome of creating a new agent but what we do think is likely to be the case is that if you were to put this cost in people would have some some sort of expectation of that cloned person.
We think there are a number of ethical qualms that come with cloning.
The first is a property right to a clone.
The question of who has property to a cloned individual is something that we think is likely to arise and along with identity problems that come with that clone.
The identity problems of the original person and of his clone knowing who they are and being able to relate to the world.
We think that that kind of psychological burden is unfair, not to mention the fact that there is now a property claim being contested between the original individual who has been cloned and probably the corporation or the lab that was to clone them.
We think there's a potential for organ farms which we think is incredibly problematic because if you were to create this high cost business of cloning human beings, we think it's likely that you'd want some sort of economic return on that and we can a very easy economic return is given the massive shortage in in the need for organ donations, we think organ farms are likely and again this would lead to human agents being stripped of their organs and used as a means to an end.
Something that we can see huge ethical problem and something that shouldn't potentially be allowed.
We also think there's a potential for human for for humans to have their rights stripped.
We think there's a massive potential that no matter what type of economic end you want to retreat from this, that whatever clone is the result of this process is likely going to face massive stigmatization, massive harms to their identity, and ultimately are likely to have their rights stripped to the point in which they are no longer human, but that doesn't mean that these harms wouldn't gather on that person.
It doesn't mean that this person this this clone wouldn't internalize the harms of such practices and given that these practices are likely to arise from such a process of human clothing cloning, we think we should cut it off at the head.
We think we should ban human cloning to to prevent these things from ever arising and for these reasons, we should ban human cloning.