We should further exploit unconventional oil.
So in this debate we want to talk primarily about the benefits of energy independence and we want to explain why, in a world in which global warming is a fact at this point and not something that is going to be easily avoided, we think it is beneficial for states to invest in unconventional oil such as oil sands and tar and things of that nature.
Moving forward.
Ok.
So firstly, under energy independence we want to talk about monopolies and opec.
So we think that outside of unconventional oil possessions, most oil, most conventional oil, is controlled by the opec monopoly.
And we think that the opec monopoly is a net bad in the world for a few reasons.
Firstly, the countries that compose opec, largely countries in the middle east, authoritarian countries, gain immense amounts of political clout because of the monopoly that they have in the status quo.
Opec, essentially, is able to act as a cartel and it gives more political power to regions and to countries that are bad countries in the world.
What we mean by bad countries are these are home these are nations that fundamentally do not respect the rights of their citizens.
Countries like saudi arabia, countries like venezuela, countries where human rights are not respected, where women's rights are not respected, and we think that because they have this monopoly on oil there is very little that the international world can do to try and combat the human rights abuses that take place in these states because they can raise the prices of oil or they can embargo their oil like happened in the united states under jimmy carter where an oil embargo took place and opec refused to sell to the united states.
We think by exploiting unconventional sources of oil more international action can be taken against these countries which is a good, and further we think that opec is essentially a price manipulator which means that the prices that are being charged in the status quo for conventional oil do not match what a fair market would breed.
So we think that unconventional oil also has its benefits outside of opec.
We think that firstly, unconventional oil increases the supply of oil and it drives down prices for everyone.
This means that even if you aren't working in the industry, that your oil prices are going to go down and that there are large benefits for all citizens with a nation because everyone is either on the grid that is powered by conventional oil or uses products such as cars that require this type of oil.
We also think that it incentivizes businesses and job creation if you exploit unconventional oil.
In the status quo, the US job market and other job markets are doing fairly well but they've started to stagnate especially for unskilled workers.
We think that introducing unconventional oil industry is getting to increase jobs particularly for people like these people that have been pushed out of manual labor fields, such as mining and other areas, we think that unconventional oil can bring jobs back to those unskilled laborers in particular which is something that we think the economy desperately needs.
Finally we think that energy independence keeps profits in the country.
In the status quo, oil profits, for the most part, go outside of the country.
They're lost to our GDP and the money that otherwise could of been reinvested by putting that money in american pockets by providing it to american job creators, or you know domestic job creators, that money can then be reinvested further into the market and can gradually increase the GDP as money continues to be exchanged.
We think that that is a preferable world to the one in which all of our oil money, all the money that is spent in conventional oil, billions of dollars every year, continues to flood outside of the domestic economy and we think that we get a all around healthier economy and all around better economy especially for unskilled workers if we invest in unconventional oil.
We recognize that global warming is a problem but we don't think that this is a meaningful tipping point in making it worse, and for these reasons we should further exploit unconventional oil.