We should not introduce goal line technology.
So, I think what's important, for framing the discussion in this debate, is to recognize what sport is actually about.
Because, in oftentimes when people talk about sports, especially fans of sports, there's often discussion of values, like valor, and honor, and tradition, and the spirit of athletics and competition, but recognize that sport, whether it's soccer, whether it's basketball, or any baseball, or any type of sport, these are all intrinsically about entertainment, whether it's at a at a young age, the entertainment of playing the sport, the the entertainment of growing from the sport, but as far as to goal line technology, as far as professionals, it is solely about the entertainment that you can bring to fans.
That the sport of soccer exists in order to make money for the owners of the team, to make money for the players, to make money for all the people involved in the creation of the product on the field, and that what matters, when making this decision, is what is going to be the best for fans.
So, when people make claims about how goal line technology allows for more accuracy, and things like that, that is not intrinsically valuable, unless they can explain why it's valuable to the fans, why it gives a better fan experience.
So, we have three reasons why we think that, it's less likely to lead to a good fan experience, and why we shouldn't introduce goal line technology, based on that reason.
The first is that, it slows down the game.
Recognize that in soccer, delays simply do not exist, in the same way that they exist in other sports, that soccer is largely about the flow of the game, about setting up plays, about the back and forth, and about ensuring that you that there's some sort of a flow and a rhythm to watching the game.
We think that goal line technology is more likely to be invasive in soccer, than it is in any other sport, that it' that the flow of soccer, the flow of the game, is so much more important to the entertainment, to the product that you see, when you're watching the game on the pitch, than it is in almost any other sport in society.
And given that this is the case, we think what's likely to happen is that fans are less likely to watch the product on the field, even if they're not less likely to follow the sport generally, they're less likely to actually give the views on on TV, and on the internet, that that provides ad revenue for these types of sports, and when that exists, we think that you're likely to get the downfall of the not the downfall of the industry of sport, but you're less likely to get revenue from the sport, and that's bad for all actors involved in the sport.
Secondly, it removes faith in referees.
So, we think that when you institute goal line technology, you're less likely to have people have faith in referees, because it's a signaling affected: if you introduce this type of technology now, it means that there's some sort of reason, that you think, that referees are not sufficient in doing their job, and yes, it is the case that obviously, voyeurs can see whether or not refs are right, when they can like look at the replay five seconds after, and yes m sometimes refs are wrong, but when you do this type of thing, you signal that you think refs are wrong so often, that they need to have this type of thing, that interrupts the flow of the game, that literally stops the game for a number of minutes, so they can go and watch one more time, or a number of times, what happened right in front of them.
Given that that's the case, and that there are the trade offs of interrupting the flow of the game, we simply think you shouldn't send that signal to fans.
Finally, we think that there is, honestly, a tape of bonding that occurs in booing referees, in booing officials, when they get something wrong.
We think that as fans, you experience the struggle of the team, when there's a mistake that happens on the field in the refereeing of the game, and you become closer to the people on the field, because you can empathize with what they're going through.
They're struggling to win a game, and in the moment, they've been stripped of something that a referee is wrong about, it allows you to connect with the people on the field, and connect to the people in the stands, to bond.
And yes, it may mean that you get a less accurate reflection of the score on the field, but it provides a more community oriented feel to the game, which is less which is more likely to attract people, to keep following the game, and increase revenue.
And it's ultimately more likely to be entertaining for people who interact with the sport.
And for these reasons, we should not introduce goal line technology.