-ot further exploit hydroelectric dams.
So we want to start off this debate by explaining to main principles that we're gonna guide our argumentation around.
The first is that it's important to recognize in this debate that there's a fungible amount of resources available for clean energy development and clean energy technology.
There are only so many investors willing to enter into the green tech market, there's only so many resources available, there's only so many people that are qualified to work in the engineering and in the development of these types of technology.
So when we're talking about whether or not we're going to further exploit hydroelectric dams, we don't think the main comparatives is between this and fossil fuels, but rather between this and other types of green tech such as solar and wind energy.
And the second thing that's important to recognize is that when we're talking about clean energy technology, what's important is not just the fact that we make the transition to green energy tech, but also that we quickly scale up.
Because it's not just a matter of converting, but doing so in a very fast manner, ensuring that the worst climate change impacts don't come to pass, and the only way to do that is by scaling up quickly so that the vast majority of people are on the green energy grid, are using green tech for their energy consumption and their energy needs.
And what's important is that in order to have this type of scale up you can only choose to develop and really invest in one, maybe two types of technology, because you need to put so many of your resources into the investigation, into the engineering, into the further development to make these types of technologies more efficient.
So what we're going to argue is that hydroelectric dams are a less useful form of green energy then specifically solar or wind.
So there are a few reasons why you think that's the case: so firstly, it's important to recognize that hydroelectric dams are nontransferable, and what this means is that while they're useful in some areas where they're possible, in which there's large rivers or other sources of immense amounts of running water, in areas where this isn't the case, areas that are very dry or mountainous or don't have these rivers nearby, this type of technology is not very useful in these areas.
And while you can use this technology for a fairly large grid to power a fairly large grid, it's not going to be enough to sustain many cities on the same grid from the same source.
And so we think that compared to things like solar energy in which you can put a solar panel on basically almost any house in america at this point and you'll be able to get almost enough energy to basically autonomously fuel that house, we think that this is just a much less efficient tool.
Secondly hydroelectric dams come with habitat destruction that other types of energy such a solar energy don't.
When you develop a hydroelectric dam you really interfere with eco systems that are involved and where the dam is being developed.
There's a lot of development that takes place not just for the dam but also in the area surrounding the dam because you need to build the infrastructure that will be able to transport the power, you need to be able to put things in place so that people can work in the area, all of these things harm the ecosystem in these areas whereas other types of green tech are less intrusive.
We think that's just better for the environment, better better goes with the philosophy of green tech.
And finally we would say that other technologies are further ahead.
There's been massive recent investment in solar cells.
There's already an immense amount of infrastructure and development existing in solar cells.
So we think that if we were to transition to solar energy rather than hydroelectric dams as our primary form of green technology, that we would have a much better chance of scaling up quickly and we think there'd be more political will for this scale up.
And what's important to remember is what we explained in the beginning: there are a fungible amount of resources and scale up requires using almost all the resources, if we're going to do it fast enough.
For these reasons we should not further exploit hydroelectric dams.