Holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.
Now obviously in this debate we're not talking about holding beliefs about holocaust denial but rather about propagating or promulgating those beliefs throughout society.
Whether this is publicly saying these things, publishing things that preach these types of ideas etcetera.
We said we would ban and criminalize those types of things.
So first, we think we need to talk about when we restrict speech, because we think we do it all the time the status quo for justifiable reasons.
So firstly, we restrict speech when it is harmful to people's identity.
So this is distinct from speech that simply makes someone feel uncomfortable, or makes someone feel sad, but rather this is speech that directly targets individuals because of an irrevocable or unchangeable aspect of who they are.
So things like hate crimes, things like racist slurs against minority communities in the united states which are criminalize, things like taking action that specifically target minority and discriminated against communities, so we restrict these things in the status quo because we don't think you have a right to spread those types of hated words.
We think the freedom of speech exists in order to ensure that we can have an open marketplace of ideas that allows for increased discourse and increased self expression, but when you when you spread these types of ideas things, like holocaust denial, you raised the experiences of an entire group of people, of the jewish population, and an experience that shaped their identity as a culture that is something that was an attack on their existence and is something that is a turning point in human history and that needs to be recognized.
We think that spreading these types of ideas undermines their identity and and also serves to undermine the marketplace of ideas, the ability for people to express themselves which means that this is an instance in which you can criminalize and therefore restrict speech.
The second reason that we can restrict speech is when it encourages bad social behavior.
So recognized that holocaust denial doesn't exist in a vacuum.
Those that deny the holocaust are also often parts of things neo-nazi and fascist organizations and things that spread and preach anti-semitism.
We think that all of these ideas are unacceptable within our society.
To continue to demonized a group of people no matter what group of people, whether they be minority group or whether they be a jewish community we think is unacceptable within our society.
All these people have the equal right to live a peaceful and prosperous life as anyone else and to and to have holocaust denial and to continue from there to preach things like harm against the jewish people and to because of holocaust denial said that they're liars about these types of things, that there's a vast jewish conspiracy which is what comes along with things like this, we think that that is unacceptable and only breeds more violence against this group of people that has already suffered far too much violence over the course of their history.
So the second reason that we think that we should that in this particular instance we should make holocaust denial a criminal offense is because to deny the holocaust into a race history creates a slippery slope in which we begin to forget the lessons of the holocaust.
We think that the holocaust is a turning point in human history not because it was a genocide but because it was a nearly universally recognized and condemned genocide.
It set an idea of what is unacceptable within a society and we think that to undermine the holocaust by denying its existence undermines the prohibitions that we have as societies on that idea and while genocide has occurred since the holocaust and will likely occur again, we think that mass demonization of the holocaust gives us reason to interfere in and break sovereign states sovereignty and ensure that people are going to be protected and we think that that is of the utmost importance that we do not allow the holocaust or instances of genocide to occur in the future and as this undermines our ability to do that and also violates the entire reason we have freedom of speech by harming other individuals we think that holocaust denial should be a criminal offense.