We should ban beauty contests.
We think that, in the status quo, beauty contests are largely used to allow women to be viewed through a male gaze, in which largely male panels and patriarchal ideas of beauty are enforced upon women, and awards are given to them for how well they can ascribe to those patriarchal ideas.
We think that this is a vastly outdated notion, and that beauty contests only exist to perpetuate these notions, with very little gain for the pageant entry individuals themselves.
So, that's what we're going to talk about in this speech, about how beauty contests set bad norms, and about why this is a a justification for a ban.
So, why does it set that norms?
We think in practice, people are rewarded largely for traditional beauty standards.
When you view something like the miss america pageant or the miss universe pageant, they have sections in which people are supposed to give speeches about things they're passionate about, or the things that show off talents that they have.
But when you see these things, you recognize that these women are largely not judged based on all of those possibilities.
Look at president donald trump who had a stake in miss america	 and miss universe, as an individual who enforced those ideas of those patriarchal notions of beauty in a woman, and views those things as largely credible as a means of judging women, and did so in these pageants.
We think that given that this is the case, it's overtly clear that the vast majority of judgment that takes place in this is almost solely on the looks of women.
We think this reinforces the idea of women being objectified, that women can be distilled into the idea of an object that you view as beautiful or not beautiful, and which you can award as you would award any other painting or art work.
We think that this dehumanizes the women and we actually think it creates immense amounts of trauma for the people that participate in these things, and additionally increases social pressure.
We recognize that beauty standards aren't created by beauty contests, but they do serve as a major force for enforcing those things with very little gain for the women that compete in these things, maybe they earn so maybe one or two women are able to earn enough money to survive for a long period of time, but this does not weigh the fact that little girls and people that are growing up, impressionable young women are learning about what they need to look like, what they need to do, how their bodies need to look, when they view these beauty contests.
And we think that these enforce incredibly unhealthy standards, both physically unhealthy and mentally unhealthy, for these girls, and we simply don't think it is worth the risk.
We think when you it also reproduces the practice of women being judged through the male gaze.
A practice that has been perpetuated throughout all of human history.
We think that as an enlightened and modern society, we should move past into a society in which women don't need to go to men for their type of for they don't have to go to men for approval, but rather can get that approval internally, can justify their existence based on things other than their appearance.
So why do we think that these arguments are enough to justify a ban?
Well, we think that bans are acceptable when there are large social externalities, and what we mean by this is that the government is justified in intervening to ban any sort of products or practice or these types of things, when the practices of that type of thing that is being banned extend beyond those that are able to consent into the impacts.
And what we mean by this is that women, young girls, are not able to consent to the harms, the psychological harms that come from beauty contests.
Well, contestants themselves may be able to consent to any of these things.
The fact that these things inevitably influence people on a subconscious and unconscious level is something that the that these people cannot consent into, that goes against the idea of the basic worth of women as human beings and not as objects.
When it undermines the basic humanity of these people, without the consent of individuals who are subconsciously being impacted in this way, we think it is a sufficient enough sufficient enough reason to ban beauty contests, and we think that there is clear harm that derives from them.
Given all of these things, we believe we should ban beauty contests.