We should introduce a flat tax.
In the status quo the majority of income taxes in western liberal democracies are progressive taxes that disproportionately tax wealthy earners and take their money even though they are the people that are least likely to take government services.
For this reason we would propose that the states or that states introduce an income tax that is a flat tax that ensures that all people that are capable of paying taxes were not going to eliminate a minimum earnings limit that allows you to have a taxable income because we think that certain people simply cannot pay taxes because of the situation they're in.
But in instances in which people can afford to pay taxes, all people have to pay the same proportion of their income into the government.
So we think that it's essential that this occurs because recognize that all individuals are exist under a coercive apparatus of the state.
No matter how wealthy one is or how poor one is, all people have been forced into the state by circumstances of where they were born or because of where they had to go to live for jobs or other types of social reasons.
No one entirely freely chooses to be within the state, and even if they did the state cannot simply, because of consent, choose to abuse its people.
The state can only be justified, can only exist in a just way, if it serves to benefit all of its people.
This means that the state has an equal burden to all citizens, even if certain citizens, through their own free power and capabilities, are able to earn more within the state apparatus then other individuals.
What we think this means is that when you have other systems of taxation such as a progressive tax, you choose to ignore the claims of representation that certain members of your constituency have.
And it means that you're saying that the freedom of property the freedom to accumulate property and accumulate wealth is different once you get richer.
It says that the humanity and the claims you have to ownership are diluted when you are a more wealthy human being.
And it's more important to recognize that the vast majority of wealthy individuals in western liberal democracies are not individuals that are taking the types of social benefits that taxes go to pay.
They pay into certain things that they're simply never going to use.
Things like welfare benefits, things like social security, these are things that wealthy individuals are forced to pay into but gain little benefit from.
Yes, it's true that these individuals gain benefit from infrastructure, protection from the army, all these things just as everyone else does, but it is the case that these individuals simply are not getting as much out of the government directly as poor individuals are.
What this means is that it is unfair, principally, to force these people to pay more and that when you have progressive taxes it allows for drastic spending to take place because it because constituencies and a base of people in the public know that they will not be the ones that have to bear the burden, the spending burden, that increased government spending costs.
We think that if you're going to institute no new government programs if you're going to place more coercive power into state hands, if you're going to ensure that the state is more capable of taking from the people within the state and stealing the property that they have earned, it is important that all people bear the ramifications of this equally.
Yes it is the case that less less wealthy individuals have less disposable income at their at their disposal but this doesn't mean that their claims to ownership change because of the quantity of ownership that you have.
Rather claims of ownership matter because of the importance of valuing property in a broad and principled manner.
We think that flat taxes to the best job of representing that and flat taxes do the best job of ensuring that not only do all people bear the same burden, but all people are given the same level of right to property as anyone else.
In the status quo there's a system that allows spending to run wild in the government level with the burden being pushed dramatically on a small segment of society.
That burden isn't fair given the responsibility the state has to all citizens and the conception that the state serves to serve exists to serve all.
Given this we should introduce a flat tax.