Partial birth abortions.
So before we start the debate, we also want to say that as part of banning this type of abortion, we want to say that if you were to do this, you would also allow more open access to abortion and the first trimester to ensure that women have the option of getting an abortion.
We don't want to ban this type of abortion and additionally ban other types of abortion.
We want to expand the access to others, but we think that this type of abortion isn't justified, and we think it's actively harmful to women and women's rights.
Okay, so first we're going to talk about what justifies abortion and why this doesn't meet that justification, and secondly we're gonna talk about the negative political will associated with partial-birth abortion.
So firstly, on justification.
We think that there are a couple of main justifications for abortion in the status quo.
We think the primary justification is that based on a balancing of rights, abortion should be allowed, that women's bodily autonomy outweighs the fetus's right to life, for the fact that at the time when a woman would have an abortion, a fetus is not viable.
It isn't capable of using its cognizance, it isn't able to make judgments, it isn't able to live outside of the womb of the mother and therefore, is entirely dependent on that mother.
We think that this is an unfair expectation to place on a woman, and we think that there are numerous reasons why a woman might want to have an abortion that are entirely justified and don't mean that she opted into having that child, for example, in cases of rape, in cases where birth control proved ineffective but the woman took all proper steps to ensure that she wouldn't get pregnant.
And we think that a woman's ability to use her bodily autonomy, to choose how her body is going to interact with the world around her and what is going to happen to her body, especially with something as drastic as carrying a child to term and giving birth, we think that this is something that a woman should have full autonomy in making the decision of, especially given the case that early in the early in the pregnancy, a fetus is not capable, is not a viable living creature.
And we think that arguments for potentiality open a paradox in which we give preference to potential creatures, to potential life in all instances, and we make things such as masturbation and things like that and having sex for reasons other than intercourse, we think you would also have to ban those things under a potentiality argument, because all sperm could become a child, all egg could become a child.
And we think that a potentiality argument just leads to a slippery slope.
But we think in the case of a partial birth in the case of late late-term abortions, we don't think that these same arguments hold up.
You're at a point in which the child, the fetus, has become viable and therefore the question is no longer one of potentiality, but one of weighing the right to life that this living creature, this viable creature, has against the rights to bodily autonomy of the woman, especially because if you increase access to abortion other times, we think that the woman has had full capability of expressing her bodily autonomy, has had full has had the full range of time and opportunity to do so and in not choosing to do so earlier, we think the right of the fetus then outweighs the mother in the long run.
Okay, secondly, on political will.
We think that because partial-birth abortions are such a dramatic and kind of visceral thing that can be portrayed in the media by anti-abortion activists and other groups of the like, we think that by banning partial-birth abortion, you're more likely to get political will for other types of abortion.
We think that when people can paint abortions, all abortions, as this kind of viscerally negative thing, it increases political will from those on the fence, from moderates, against abortion for all.
We think that by banning partial-birth abortion, you make it less likely that these types of visceral images are going to come out, less likely that anti-abortion activists are going to be able to paint this as all abortions, and therefore more likely that in the long run, more women are able to express their bodily autonomy than if you keep partial-birth partial-birth abortions as an actual option.
For these reasons, we should ban partial-birth abortions.