We should introduce year round schooling.
We think that when it comes to education debates the focus of the debate should always be on what is most likely to result in good education for children, what is likely to lead to a more informed populace in the future, and what is most likely to be effective in actually achieving the goals of educating.
So the model for this we think is pretty clear.
We think that instead of having summer vacation, we would have school all for the entire year.
We think that you're likely to increase we would probably increase the amount of school days that people have but we would also increase the amount of breaks that exist during the school year.
So in the status quo in much of the united states there are like two large breaks during the school year.
One for the spring, and one for the winter.
We would increase these types of one week breaks but we would get rid of the three month layoff that exists during the summer.
Alright so why do we think that this is so crucial?
So the status quo has some very clear flaws.
When we're talking about education, when you're talking about allowing people to really internalize what they're being taught in a classroom, we think that a three month gap every single year between class ending and class beginning is one that is likely going to result in the deterioration of skill.
This is why in many schools the first month, or the first few weeks of class, result in people relearning what they learned in the past year.
For example if you're going from algebra to geometry in high school, the first month of geometry may be composed of relearning the things that you learned the year before in algebra and the reason for this is that teachers and students alike both know that people simply forget the things that they've learned the year before.
Once people pass the test and move on move move on with their life start, enjoying their summer, they're unlikely to actually remember the things that they learned in that class which means that school itself becomes a repetitive practice and it's also a massive time waste that otherwise could be used for teaching other subjects for continuing education.
But more importantly, we don't think there's any sort of consistency to this type of education in the status quo.
We think the way that people are most likely to learn to most likely internalize knowledge is to get a consistent learning pattern develop, to have some sort of study methods that they're able to consistently applied throughout the year but having hiatuses such as summer vacation, don't allow for these consistent patterns of education to emerge and we think that this leads to bad education habits and it leads to people always counting down to summer vacation.
When people always have this one long break to look forward to they tend to turn off especially in the latter half of the school year when they know it's coming close.
If you don't have these types of things we think you have more consistent patterns and what we've seen is success abroad where people have had these types of year round schooling.
In nations that do have this type of schooling, their test scores tend to be higher than the test scores in places like the united states and other areas in which they have this very long lay off in the middle of the summer and we think that we think that arguments that go against this often involve the idea of children wanting to be able to take the time off.
That there's this expectation that parents want to take their children on vacation and do this and that.
But recognized if you give breaks during the year these types of things can still be done.
Children can still get time to take their breaks but you actually also can spread the spread the lessons, spread the tasks out over a longer period of time which means that we think that students while they're in school, are less likely to have the same levels of stress, the same levels of anxiety, and the same pressure upon them as they would when the school year shortened and teachers are forced to cram entire entire courses into a shorter period of time into a shorter period of time and trying to get it all in before they lose the attention of their students who are always looking on to the prospect of summer.
We think that year round schooling has been shown in past instances to be successful.
It is shown to allow for better education patterns, and habits to form in students and we think that simply sticking to the old way of doing things because people are comfortable with it is never sufficient excuse.
We think that year round schooling is likely to result in more educated students, in a more educated populace, and for this reason, we should introduce year round schooling.