We should not adopt vegetarianism.
So, firstly what's important to recognize is that government defines this debate as one in which people have an obligation to adopt this type of lifestyle, to be a vegetarian, so we're going to explain firstly, why animals simply do not deserve rights, and secondly we're going to respond to some of the arguments that they make about how meat production is simply a human harm and we have to respect the rights of humans, we're going to explain why adopting vegetarianism is not the only way that this can be done, and why that means you don't have an obligation to do this.
Okay.
So firstly on animal rights.
We want to say that rights are inherently a social construct, and what we mean by this is that rights don't just come objectively out of the universe around us, they aren't just these things that ethereally exist and are applied to humanity, but rather they are constructed by societies for the purpose of utility.
Societies create these rights for the purpose of making human lives more meaningful, more valuable, and giving protections onto humans that are more fair.
So why do we think that animals should not be included in this conversation?
Well firstly, we think the whole purpose of rights is to only include those that are part of that dialogue, and even if that doesn't mean that and this doesn't mean that every single human being needs to be involved in the legislation of rights etcetera, but people themselves are ethical actors, they can pose ethical queries, and they can make ethical choices, but this simply isn't the case for animals.
For example, largely rights are based on a reciprocal nature, and what this means is that people respect my rights because I consent and I choose to protect their rights, and this is where punishment comes in, and basically every legal system in the world insofar as when I stop choosing to respect your rights, when I stop reciprocating those rights to you, then my rights become void and that is why I can be punished.
But this isn't the case for animals.
Animals have no cognitive ability to respect the rights of other people and therefore we can't hold them to the same standard, and they fall out of the frame of discussion.
Furthermore, they can't internalize rights.
So even if we were to give animals rights, we were to say we're going to ensure that all animals have these ten rights, there's no way for them to understand that rights have been placed upon them and therefore they can't internalize the value of those rights, and they can't act upon those rights.
So, given that this is the case, and furthermore that animals are just not a part of our society, they aren't a part of our social constructs.
Yes, we may have pets and then we give certain rights to those pets, but this isn't what this debate is about.
This is about whether or not farm animals deserve the same level of rights as humans, or even any sort of rights at all.
Given that animals are not part of that construct, and given that animals can't reciprocate or respond to rights in any way, we don't think that they have these types of rights.
If we think that suffering is bad and that we should prevent suffering, there's way to to do that without adopting vegetarianism, but we don't think that that is something that is meaningful about animals, it's about how we internalize and respond to animal harm, it's not about applying rights to animals themselves, and therefore we don't think you need to adopt vegetarianism because animals themselves have rights.
So finally, on meat production, responding to the government side a little bit.
We think that these harms can be alleviated in a number of other ways.
First, you can cut consumption.
So even if you want to be ethical in how you grow these meat and and what not how the amount of input that goes into meat.
You could just cut your consumption, instead of eating meat five days a week you can eat it one day a week, and that's a way to kind of help the burden that meat creates without becoming a vegetarian.
You can also increase prices as a farmer.
And finally, you can limit land allocation for the production of meat.
So if land allocation and the use of land is so inefficient and so harmful that it is harming humanity, you can create regulations to allocate only a certain amount of land for that, but none of this involves becoming a vegetarian, none of this requires vegetarianism of people, and therefore people do not have this obligation.
Because of these reasons, we should not adopt vegetarianism.