We should not abolish intellectual property rights.
So in this debate we want to talk about two main arguments.
The first is about fairness and the second is about innovation and social utility.
So first, on fairness.
Broadly, we would say that property rights are important and ought be protected.
We would say that people exert effort, time and put their own labor into the products of their creation, and because they are the sole creators or the primary creators of their products, we think that they deserve to have control over that product, the control to have a they deserve to have a property right over that product.
If you buy that this is the case, and for the vast majority of countries there's an obvious there are obvious laws protecting property rights, we would say that intellectual property is no philosophically different from physical property that has been protected by modern states since their conception.
We would say that intellectual property requires the exertion of immense amounts of mental effort, immense amounts of innovation, and immense amounts of investment from individuals.
And we think that intellectual property clearly has intense market value.
It clearly has this market value that is a part of its own creation.
And because of this, if you do not guarantee the protection of that of that property right for the people that have created it, people are still going to profit off of these intellectual property creations.
This isn't just going to sit in the ether and everyone is going to be able to freely use it.
It just means that people that watch this intellectual property be created will be able to package it and that corporations will be able to sell it as their own without any sort of royalty going to the creator of this property.
Given that there is a profit that is going to be generated from valuable intellectual property, we think that it is most fair that that profit is in the hands of those that created it, those that exerted the effort, that created the knowledge that composes this intellectual property.
They should be the ones that are able to control this.
For example, if you created a song, if you're a songwriter and you made the song, we think that you should have the ability to determine where that song is played and who gets to use it.
For example, many people don't allow politicians to use their music, because they are associated with that music in their brand associated with that music and they don't want it to be politicized, or they disagree with the politician, and we think that that is entirely fair.
And without intellectual property rights, instances like that would not allow the creator to be protected.
The second thing we want to talk about though is innovation.
We think that intellectual property rights ensure that creators get to profit off of their efforts, they get to profit off of their intellectual property.
What this means is that there's a market incentive in the status quo to be innovative.
But if you remove that profit incentive, we think you get a free rider problem in which all people know that they can profit off of other individuals' creations and there's no incentive to invest the time and effort yourself in order to create valuable IP, because you can just take the IP from others and repackage it and rebrand it.
What this means en masse is that you're going to have less market innovation, and this has real world implications.
In the tech world, in the health industry, intellectual property is incredibly important to these sectors, and these are the sectors that are driving global growth and global innovation.
These are the things that allow for longer life spans.
These are the things that allow for more leisure leisure time in individual's lives and for a higher quality of life for the average person.
We think that these sectors in particular are vulnerable if you remove intellectual property rights and that these sectors are driving global growth in the status quo.
By removing intellectual property rights, we think you remove an immense amount of the innovation that currently exists, and you harm global growth as a result.
For these reasons, we should not abolish intellectual property rights.