We should adopt atheism.
So in this round we're going to say that individuals on balance should be atheists and that as a society we should lean towards a society that embraces atheism and goes against religion.
Okay so a couple of reasons why we think we should adopt atheism.
The first is based on logic.
So we would say that religious beliefs are antithetical to logic for a few reasons.
The first is that religious beliefs openly denounce openly accept the fact that the beliefs they hold are not based on any sort of factual understanding.
It's based on a leap of faith that individuals take based on some assorted arguments made within with within religious texts but from their faith a leap of faith in the god that they choose to believe in.
It is an outward acceptance that these types of leaps of faith, those that go directly against logic, are acceptable within the society.
We think that when individuals choose to adopt these religious beliefs it ultimately leads to a situation which individuals are more prone to to buy into information without any sort of logical backing.
And we think this is problematic within society.
We think in the status quo we're in a society where information is so dispersed and so disseminated on to people that there is a massive problem with misinformation and people's inability to check themselves.
We think that religion does not breed in and of itself skeptical individuals.
And that skeptical individuals are necessary in a time like today where information and misinformation is becoming so much more outwardly outwardly open and so much more prevalent within our society.
So we think that religion does not allow individuals to become skeptical.
And in fact breeds within individuals an idea that they should buy into the information that they believe and they feel to be correct.
Buying into information based on feeling rather than logic and rather than fact.
We think this is the type of world that is bred in the status quo in which individuals vote against their interests in which individuals denounce science in places like the united states by denouncing global warming because it doesn't feel like it is correct to them.
We think that that type of understanding, that type of way of thinking that is bred by religion, is problematic and should be discarded.
Finally we think that religion on balance has been a negative thing within human history.
Recognize that there is a massive history of conflict associated with all types of religion, whether this is religions warring against each other or people using religion as a justification for types of colonization that we've seen throughout the world, enslavement, these types of things, these systems of oppression were justified on religious basis and these types of systems of repression, while not as problematic, still exists in the status quo with discrimination against minority groups, patriarchal oppression of women and discrimination against LGBTQ people.
All justified under religious beliefs.
We think that these types of backward notions based again on feelings and beliefs rather than on logical understandings of how we should treat our fellow man, these are problematic aspects of religion that society needs to be willing to discard.
We also think that religion pushes morality on to individuals in a way that is unacceptable.
We think that morality as a construct is something that individuals and society should be able to construct based on what is necessary for their times, but that religion pushes all time morality onto a modern society that is advancing far faster than that religion ever could have predicted or ever could have planned for.
We think that these types of values, while in part are still important and in part are acceptable, these are the values that aren't going to be discarded when individuals by and large switch to atheism, but rather the types of discriminatory biases that come with religion and the type of illogical thinking that comes with a religion.
We think these things are discarded when you embrace atheism and that's why we should adopt atheism.