We should introduce covenant marriages.
To be clear we wouldn't institute a system in which covenant marriage is mandated but rather we would allow for there to be a legal option to be bound under a covenant marriage as opposed to a standard marriage that exists within society.
And this would of course would come with the constraints of making it much more difficult to receive a divorce with different types of pressure being placed on the individual to ensure that they stay married in the long run.
We would say that these covenant marriages can be annulled if certain requirements would be met but we've set those apartments at a much higher level than marriages are in the status quo.
Okay so firstly, about the option for religious expression.
And the secondly, what long term marriage does as a social good.
Recognize that even if society doesn't believe that should adopt certain religious values, having the option of a covenant marriage option that recognizes the importance religiously of not having divorce, of staying married, does not ensure that a state endorses any particular religion, but rather simply gives individuals within that state an option of more full religious expression.
It means that individuals can go to a or go to the state and have something legally bonding placed upon them that helps them stay true to their faith.
We think this is important because for those most faithful individuals, we think that they should be forced to consider the ramifications of their decision more clearly before they get married.
They should be forced to recognize that the bond they are taking, even if it is not in the status quo legally binding in perpetuity, is one that because of their belief system, is permanently binding.
And we think that if a state apparatus can allow for that faith to be more meaningfully expressed, if it can allow for that faith to be more fully expressed, and if it puts constraints that makes people seriously consider their faith more, when it only applies to individuals that have that faith, we think there is no loss in instituting this type of system.
We think it's good that individuals are able to have the most full type of religious expression because these types of religions these types of religious beliefs about marriage and about connection with a spouse are so fulfilling to individuals in the status quo.
So aside from the religious benefits, we think that there are real benefits to long term marriage that a covenant marriage helps to protect because it makes it such much more difficult to get divorced.
Firstly, it ensures that if you it insures that because you're thinking more about your marriage you're more likely to marry someone that is going to be a stable partner.
So whether or not you love your partner, a permanent partner does allow for an immense amount of financial and social security even in instances when you may be struggling.
When you're tied to someone and when you have a partner in life that is going through the same types of struggles you are, that is bound to your struggles, it makes it much easier to bear the burden of that struggle.
It also means that if you're having a long term marriage, you're much more likely to have a stable household for any potential children.
Children have no choice about what type of familial household they're going to be born in and it's just statistically true that single parent households are much more likely to lead to a situation which a child struggles moving forward in life.
We think that covenant marriages, because it makes it more difficult to get divorced, is more likely to ensure that you don't have single parent households.
That you have a situation in which both parents feel a responsibility to stay for the child.
Finally we think because we think finally we think there's a benefit some think that you're less likely to get into a legal battle over assets which can be not only struggling and detrimental to any sort of semblance of relationship you have with the person you're getting divorced from, but can also leave you in immense destitution moving forward in life.
We think that marriage as an institution allows you to have a partner, allows you to support children potentially and allows you to be in a more stable situation.
Given that covenant marriage is not mandated but rather an option.
We see no downsides the government introducing it and that's why we should introduce covenant marriage.