We should not legalize ivory trade.
In the status quo there is an issue, a major issue that faces rhinos and elephants of different species in that many elephant and rhino species are going extinct.
The reason for this is that ivory is an incredibly valuable asset and an incredibly valuable resource in many countries seen for both communal uses, for medical uses of different types in different sort of homeopathic remedies, but also just for the value of the material itself for jewelry and things like this.
So ivory's incredibly valuable on the world market and it has led to a dramatic decline in elephant and rhino populations.
Which is actually very important for those species in particular because the breeding periods I know of elephants is a very long time, and for rhinos it's similarly long, the gestation it takes a long time for populations of these types of species to grow back.
So when these species are endangered, it makes it even more likely that they could go extinct in the future.
So firstly we're going to talk about animal rights and why yet animals deserve rights and why and why this is so crucial about legalizing ivory trade.
Why it would be bad for those respects.
So why do animals deserve rights?
We think in order for rights to be effective, they need to be objective.
That is in order for a system of rights to be coherent and to protect in a way that is unbiased and isn't perspectival, which means it protects broadly no matter what the perspective is that you're taking, it allows that we can make objective judgments about right and wrong.
In order for this to be to be the case, there needs to be some sort of foundation on which these rights exist.
And it can't simply be humanity unless we give good reasons why humanity is the line that needs to be drawn for giving rights.
But we think that this is rather rather subjective in that we're only giving it to humans because we are humans.
There isn't on any other basis besides that.
We think that a much better reason to give rights is on the basis of pain and pleasure.
The reason for this is that rights ultimately come down to trying to minimize pain and enact more pleasure.
When we talk about rights to life, rights to speech, rights to bodily autonomy, all these are for reasons of trying to minimize pain when you get to the very bottom of it, when you ask why is it important to protect these rights?
You enter into an infinite regress of answers until it comes to that simple point.
In given that that's what we're trying to do with rights, we should give it on the basis of whether or not these things can feel pain and pleasure.
And in the instance of animals that produce ivory, the answer is resoundingly yes.
These animals can not only experience pain or pleasure, but also have human like emotions.
They can experience sadness, they can know that a threat is coming and respond to it, they can experience fear, all of these types of things that we would say are human are experiences and emotions that these animals can have.
So even if you think that pain and pleasure isn't the basis, if you think it's consciousness, or things like this, the ability to have human like interactions, these animals often form human like communities with hierarchies and different types of social understandings between groups, even if they're not advanced.
So we clearly think that animals, especially elephants and rhinos, advanced intelligent animals, deserve rights.
The problem with this is that if you legalize the ivory trade, you are almost certainly going to ensure that there's an expansion in hunting.
When it's legalized to hunt these animals, when it's legalize to trade these types of things, even if you don't legalize the hunting itself, it means that sport is going to become far more common and it's already very difficult to look at these to observe and protect these animals from these things because of the wide areas in which these animals may roam and the ability for hunters to go undetected.
It's difficult to regulate these things and when the black market can operate in the open, it means that it's easier to get these types of these types of goods, but it also means that there's a greater demand for these goods.
So even if it can be better observed and better monitored if you bring it into a legal market, it means that the demands for these goods is going to go up so dramatically that you're almost certainly going to see hunters and poachers attack these the these animals in new numbers.
Given that these animals deserve the right to life based on the principles of pain and pleasure, we don't think that you should legalize the ivory trade, because it would ultimately lead almost certainly to their extinction.
And given all this we should not legalize the ivory trade.