We should legalize polygamy.
So, at the very beginning, we want to recognize that polygamy has a connotation associated with it, that is often has to do with the coercion of individuals, specifically women to marry one man, and like a cult situation, or things of this nature.
We just want to say that we believe that, in legalizing polygamy, there are still checks that can be put in place, to ensure that, for example, people that are under a certain age are not able to do this, to ensure that people that are being coerced are not forced into doing this, that you can ensure, as the state, that proper steps are taken to ensure that people are not coerced into doing this.
So, in that respect, we think that it is the fundamental right of people to freely choose to consent into a loving relationship, and that in denying the access to polygamous relationships, and the legitimacy of polygamous relationships, you deny the right to people, consenting adults, to love one another in the way the see fit.
Okay, so first we're gonna talk about laws broadly, and then we're going to talk about why polygamy itself is not problematic.
Okay, so, we think that criminalization should not be based on the enforcement of moral norms, and of particular attitudes.
We think that the reason that polygamy became legal, in the first place, is because there is an association of polygamy with certain bad moral actors, and that as such, individuals felt that they need to enforce their own moral systems onto individuals.
We don't think this is a proper justification for inhibiting someone's freedom.
We think that laws should only be constructed in order to maximize freedom, and what this means is that, laws should be constructed, insofar as if someone is taking action that violates another individual's freedom, that restricts their ability to freely do as they see fit in a meaningful way, we think that it is justified in making such an action illegal, in certain circumstances.
But in the case of polygamy, we see no such way in which a polygamous relationship, or polygamous marriage, in any way undermines the freedom of other individuals.
If I and two other people love each other, and agree that we love each other, and consent to being in that type of relationship, we see no way in which our love has any sort of impact on other individuals.
If there's some sort of emotional repercussions, that other individuals experience, it is not the job of government to ensure, that people are always comfortable with the actions of all other individuals, or otherwise, you would have to criminalize almost every action, that an individual could feasibly take, because someone is going to is going to find those actions repugnant.
We think that polygamy, that love cannot be quantified into a simple idea that one person loves another person, and that love is reciprocal in nature.
We don't think that love can be restrained to traditional marriage ideals, and to the idea that it could only be between two consenting individuals.
We think that love is much more broad than that, and that in criminalizing polygamy in the status quo, we deny that love as legitimate.
We tell people that their relationship is improper, we demonize people, because they have emotional attachments to more than one individual.
We don't think there's any justification for this, insofar as people, who are in these polygamous relationships, do not harm other individuals.
As such, we believe that it is essential that the state does not construct laws on the basis of emotional or moral repugnance, but simply on the basis of ensuring the maximal freedom of its citizenry.
And for these reasons, we believe we should legalize polygamy.