Abstinence only sex education should not be mandatory.
So, in this debate we think that it's important to recognize that the whole purpose of having sex education should be for young people to learn how to be safe when having sexual intercourse, to understand how to be safe and to protect themselves from the potentiality of sexually transmitted diseases or an unwanted pregnancy both of which can be long term harms to the individual and can be incredibly traumatic whether it results in someone having a disease that they have to bear with, a child that they didn't want, or the possibility of having to get an abortion.
All of which can be incredibly traumatic.
We think that people are going to have sex.
Teenagers, young people, are going to have sex with or without with or without this type of sex education.
We don't think that preaching abstinence only is going to be effective in stopping sex and we can see this empirically in the fact that in places in the united states in which abstinence only sex education is the only thing that is allowed, there are the highest rates of unwanted teen pregnancies.
It's because individual students especially, are not prone to listen to the moral preaching of teachers in their classroom especially if they're not being taught the sames things by their parents or maybe additionally when it's compounded by the same preaching they see at home.
Regardless, we think that given that absence only sex education is not effective in resulting in having people practice abstinence only, we think that it's important that you recognize the fact that people are going to have sexual intercourse, that they're going to be sexually active, and that you respond to it.
So that is our main argument.
So why do we think that any other type of sexual education is going to be more effective?
So we think that any other type of sexual education is one, less likely to result in unwanted pregnancies because if you teach people how to use condoms, if you teach people about the potentiality for getting a diaphragm, or for getting a birth control or the variety of other types of contraceptive that are available, we think that these are things that can actually be very enlightening to people.
Most people that are starting to have sex don't know how to properly use a condom and they don't know about the effectiveness of other types of birth control or the rates of effectiveness.
When you're unknowledgeable about these things, you tend to learn from sources that are less reputable.
Some people learn about sex through porn, other people learn about it through older siblings but these are not reputable sources.
We think it's much preferable to have someone that has knowledge of that has knowledge of contraceptive, knowledge of STD's, these types of things to teach real information to students so they can make truly informed decisions.
So they can really decide whether or not they're willing to take on the risks of these things when they choose to have sex.
So we think that having individuals who are actually informed is more likely to result in a decline in STD's and unwanted pregnancy which are obviously problematic.
So why do you think the government has an obligation to inform?
First, we think that the government has it recognized responsibility to educate.
This is seen in the fact that nearly every state has some sort of public education system for students.
We don't think that the fact that we're talking about sex and not about math makes it any different.
That there is still responsibility to educate given that both are crucial to a functional adult.
Secondly, we think that parents are simply not qualified in the same way that students often don't know that much about contraceptive and these types of things.
Parents are often uninformed and even when parents are informed, they're often unlikely to tell these things to their children for a variety of reasons and finally, we don't think that religion is impeded by a knowledge of contraceptive.
Just because you say the word condom doesn't mean that it violates the religious freedom of any person.
It doesn't mean that you're endorsing children having underage sex, and it doesn't mean that you can't include the idea of abstinence in your sex education.
Just means that the government is fulfilling its responsibility to educate and fulfilling its responsibility to keep it citizens safe, and for use reasons, abstinence only sex education should not be mandatory.