We should not further exploit wind power.
So, what we think is very crucial in this debate is to point out at the start, what the comparative in this round is.
Because we think that, in the status quo, oftentimes different types of renewable energy resources in a free and open market, compete for investments.
The reason for this is that, not a because renewable energies are at this moment not very profitable, and it's not something that investors are looking to eagerly invest in the status quo, so there are a limited amount of investors, and there are limited amount of fungible government funds, that can go into renewable energy resources.
Other funds are going into fossil fuels, and those types of energies, and we don't think that this is really about, whether or not we can get that type of revenue, because we think obviously it would be preferable if you could get that type of revenue into wind power, or any renewable power, but this is about, if we're going to put our resources into a certain type of renewable energy, should that type of renewable energy be wind power?
Because we think that, when you're saying which resources people should invest their money into, when there's a necessary tradeoff, we need to talk about what is most efficient, and most likely to come to market and the means that can actually effect real change, in a wide variety of environments.
We simply don't think that wind power is the type of technology that will allow that to be the case.
So we think that there are two better alternatives, in regards to renewable energy resources, that we should exploit instead of wind power, given the fungabilities, and the limits of spending in the status quo.
So firstly, we think solar power is immensely more preferable to wind power.
There are few developments in solar power that are crucial to recognize: first, solar power is becoming increasingly more efficient, because solar cells themselves are becoming more efficient.
The technology that allows for these batteries, these solar cell batteries, to store their electricity, the lithium ion batteries, are becoming more and more sophisticated, which means that the cost curve for producing solar power is much lower than that of wind power.
It's simply a more effective way of storing and holding energy, and it's more applicable to smaller scale.
So, whereas you can have wind farms of in different areas like oceans, and you know prairies in fields, and areas that get a lot of wind, these end up feeding into a factory or a plant that disperses energy to like a small geographical area, whereas solar power is something that most homes are capable of, on their own rooftops, getting the type of solar, the type of sun right now, with the current technology of solar power, to to fuel their house and their household needs, for ninety percent of the time.
Given that this is the case, and given that it is a type of technology that isn't limited by by the capability to have a certain amount of wind at your availability, or an immense amount of infrastructure developed to allow these things to come to market in a way that is reasonable, for the average consumer to take in, we would say that solar power is immensely further advanced, especially given that there are companies like solar city, run by elon musk, that already have immense amounts of resources at their disposal, and are already putting products on the market.
We think that, this is the avenue we should go down in regards to renewable resources.
The other alternative that we think is preferable its nuclear energy: recognize in the status quo that nuclear energy is immensely underfunded, and immensely overfeared, because of certain instances, in which nuclear power plants have melted down, but per the amount of nuclear energy, there are actually fewer nuclear accidents than there are from fossil fuels.
And, the potential for nuclear energy is much more massive than any type of other energy, than wind power, than fossil fuels, than solar power can be.
Given that this is the case, we think that, if you're going to invest in something that isn't already dominant on the market, like solar power, if you're going to invest in new technologies, and developments of new technologies, we think that nuclear power has more potential than wind power.
We think both alternatives are preferable to wind power, and for these reasons we should not further exploit wind power.