We should abolish antisocial behavior orders.
Antisocial behavior orders are orders that courts are able to pass upon individuals in torts in which individuals that express what are known as antisocial behaviors, are broadly behaviors that go outside of social norms.
That these individuals can be both publicly shamed and it ensures that these individuals in certain cases can be prohibited from behaving in these ways.
This can be anything from breaking local ordinances about sound, to how you behave in a public group and using vulgar language things like this.
Things that go outside norms of of society.
So we think there are two reasons why we should abolish ASBOs.
The first is that laws should exist to protect freedom and we think that this goes directly against that claim.
Firstly, we think that society is structured in such a way where individuals are not meaningfully able to opt into the society and the legal system they're born into.
Individuals are often born in the country where they'll spend their entire lives and never have a choice over where they were born.
They're bred within that society to live within that society's laws and the individual has very little control over the laws in which they're governed by.
So even if this the vast majority of individuals don't get to have a stand in how they make use laws outside of you know moderately through voting.
They don't have a stance over how these laws are enforced, and they don't a stance over who is making these laws.
So in this way we think that law law by the state is should only exist in order to protect freedom, because as individuals exist within the state it is already an immense burden upon their personal freedom.
It already prohibits them without their consent from expressing that freedom and therefore in order to make sure that that state is just and those laws are just, those laws should only reflect necessary restraints that ensure that freedom is maximized for the whole.
So we think that these things simply do not fall under that.
We think that individuals who express antisocial behaviors who are not doing things broadly that are going to prohibit other individuals from pursuing their freedom, they may be things that irk other individuals, they may be things that are bothersome to certain people.
But we think that teaching social behavior and social norms is not the job of laws.
It's the job of society.
It's the job of the community in which people are raised.
And even if someone is doing something that may be perceived as a nuisance one, this doesn't this doesn't mean that that is necessarily warranting some sort of punishment or public shaming, and two, it means that the society has failed in other steps.
It means that that society has failed in properly teaching these individuals these social norms.
So the second problem that we have with antisocial behaviors is even if you don't think that the law itself is necessarily bad, that it's banning things that are necessarily bad.
We think the way the law exists now is not acceptable.
So the way that the law exists now has very little clarity which we think is necessary in order for people to have a just law.
What we mean by this is that antisocial behaviors are understood very broadly so these don't have certain particular behaviors with tied punishments to them, which means that people can't be fully knowledgeable that they're breaking the law when they do it.
You can't know that you're violating an anti social behavior order because the laws that determine what these things are are largely discretionary and up to judgments of courts and groups like this because this is the case we don't think that this law can be fair.
If one does not have men's rare or the understanding that when they're committing an act it is one that is with ill intent and against the law, we don't think that it's fair that those people can be punished.
If you never knew that such an action could plausibly result in the punishment that you are facing, we don't think it's fair of society to push that punishment.
So even if you were to have these type of antisocial behavior orders we think it would be preferable to have a system of laws that reflect very specific behaviors and very specific prohibitions.
So either way even if you believe that these anti social behavior orders are good in theory that it restricts actions in a positive way they need to be done in an entirely different manner but further, we don't think that these justifications are true.
We don't think these prohibitions are fair and for this reason we should abolish antisocial behavior orders.