I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban anonymous posts.
The enforcement mechanism will basically be to just shut down websites that allow anonymous posting.
So you know presumably most sites associated with large firms will obviously just comply with this.
You know sites like twitter for example that allow just sort of like egg accounts or youtube which can allow for anonymous commenting.
We would say that this always has to be associated with like an actual person and we were just outright shut down sites that are completely predicated upon anonymous posting so like yik yak and things like that.
Two independent points.
First is that anonymous posting allows for more vitriolic online discourse and that this is inherently problematic.
I think there's really two ways in which this breaks down.
So broadly what happens here is that because people are able to hide behind an anonymous shield and they're not you know particularly accountable for whatever it is that they say, they're more likely to say things that are deliberately inflammatory or deliberately offensive either just because they think they can get away with it and they genuinely hold those views or because they're just trying to be inflammatory and just trying to get a rise out of somebody.
So then the two ways really that we see this breaking down and causing harm is first is the personal harms that people are more likely to target individuals and you know actually harass them online.
So I think one particularly good example of this is the way that leslie jones was harassed on twitter you know having rachel racial epitaphs slurred at her and misogynists epitaphs.
So this type of harassment is directly facilitated by anonymous commenting because people don't have to remain accountable for what it is that they're saying but secondly, there's the discursive harm that broadly online discourse becomes more vitriolic, becomes were confrontational, because there is this norm set around the internet that people are just going to be more aggressive when they're behind an anonymous shield.
We think that to an extent this still happens even when you're not personally face to face with the individual but it is significantly and even exponentially more problematic when there is no way for there to be any sort of accountability for these types of actions.
Because the discourse shifts to be more vitriolic on the internet when there's that anonymous component, we think there's a more long lasting effect on our societal discourse patterns in that we are you know more likely to be combative with one another in that we are you more likely to see others as the enemy and less willing to you know rationalize with another because of just sort of the way that online commenting has shaped the way that our society talks with one another.
The second independent point that I'd like to advance is a general lack of accountability for actions.
So just beyond sort of the ways in which this affects how we talk to one another there's also the broader issue of accountability.
First, I think this is something that just principled issue that when we speak we should be accountable for the things that we say.
We want individual you know sentences and sentiments to be tied to an individual because we only care about things being expressed in the first place because there is an individual behind that sentiment.
We think that when sentiments just kind of come out of the ether because they're voiced by anonymous trolls or whatever that's a problem, because that means that there really significant portions of our societal discourse that don't have an actual source, that don't stem from an individual person.
But we also think that that lack of you know connection to an individual person is harmful for law enforcement reasons.
That anonymity on the internet has you know made it very difficult to enforce things like say hate crime laws because you can essentially target people anonymously.
You are less accountable from a legal perspective to answer for your actions and to answer for the the harm you have placed on society by encouraging this type of discourse and by incurring these types of harms on people.
Proud to propose.