I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should criminalize holocaust denial.
Two independent points, first is freedom of speech.
Gov explains to you in their speech that this is essentially something that causes harm using the , you know, shouting fire in a crowded theater type standard.
Well I think that standard makes sense, that speech that causes tangible harm should be restricted.
I think there's a lot of problems with the way in which this standard is then applied to holocaust denial by side government.
The first is that holocaust denial is a simple idea statement.
It is not, you know, an actual call to arms or a call to action.
This is a problem because gov repeatedly insists that there is acts of violence which correlate strongly with holocaust denial, but I don't think this is a sufficient standard for actually abolishing the type of speech.
That just because it correlates and is often associated with violence, doesn't mean that you should, you know, completely restrict the notion is bad, and generally under any sort of, you know, construct of what free speech is and why it matters, expression of ideas and opinions is paramount to its preservation.
But the second is that, you know, when the second standard way in which she applies the standard is to say that there is psychological damage intrinsic to expression of the idea.
Wholly speaking, this is a bad standard for when we should restrict freedom of speech.
Most ideas, most opinions, create some sort of psychological damage.
You know, expression of support for communism probably establishes some level of psychological damage for, you know, people who fled the russian regime.
Expression of support for fascism probably, you know, is it creates that sense of problems for , you know, people who fled the italian regime.
Lots of ideas have really problematic applications for lots of people.
Even if that psychological damage and that, you know, that pain that people feel when it is brought up is extremely real, it is a bad standard to apply universally, because that intrinsically winds up with restrictions on large amounts of speech and opinions.
This limits discourse.
This limits people's right to autonomy and free speech, wholly speaking, and we think this is extremely, extremely problematic.
My second independent point is that underground discourse, which is what happens on their side of the house, is worse than the world in which people openly discuss holocaust denial.
So even if you think that this is something that free speech doesn't protect and it's just an awful idea that people really shouldn't be discussing, I don't think that the policy actually does that.
People still have these conversations but they have them, you know, on things like online chat rooms, or in, you know, dark closed rooms or whatever, like this isn't something that goes away.
This has two impacts.
First is that now it festers in the worst way possible.
People radicalize because there's never question on their beliefs.
These conversations exclusively happen in like literal echo chambers, online locations where there is no voice of opposition expressed and as a result, the belief system coalesces into the anti-semitism that side gov so obviously is trying to avoid.
But secondly, I think that there's less converts to these radical ideas when you have it expressed in a public forum.
The reason for this is that the way in which, you know, radical anti-semitic groups generally recruit their members is through things like, you know, targeting people who feel like they are rejects of society, bringing them into these like closed, you know, like online chambers and things like that, and then subjecting them to the echo chamber where these beliefs are never questioned.
We think when these conversations happen in public though, there is a capacity to, you know, challenge them through the media, through online discourse, through literal interpersonal discourse, and as a result, we think it's much harder for these radical groups to just recruit people, because the beliefs are questioned, because there is that voice of opposition.
And as a result, we think it's much better with this is a frank conversation that we have out in the open rather than allowing, you know, anti-semites to just have these closed-door conversations where they're reinforcing their own ideas and are never questioned.
Proud to oppose.