I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt multiculturalism.
So two points really, but first just like a little quick model explanation I guess is that what we mean by adopting multiculturalism is really embracing a society where multiple cultural backgrounds coexist.
So this is something less like a nation-state and more like you know countries where there is you know a wide variety of cultures represented.
We're obviously not going to that they're you know represented equally but we do want to embrace a society that attempts to integrate rather than segregate essentially.
So two independent points.
The first being that you know that integration basically leads to more contact amongst cultures and increases tolerance for others.
So we think that in a world without multiculturalism, that is one where there is sort of segregation based on cultural values and norms, where you know sort of like different groups and enclaves have different physical territories and that they don't really intermingle very much.
There's a lot of intrinsic harms generally for the ones that for whatever culture is in the minority.
The first is just outright discrimination you know talking about housing policies, talking about you know education policies that you just have like active discrimination against this group because they don't have the political capital and numbers to really represent themselves properly within the system.
Second is violence.
You know just just outright violence against members of an oppressed community.
This is I think a good example of this islamophobia in the united states where people who just legitimately do not understand the culture that a lot of people of middle eastern descent come from translates into widespread violence and acts of hate outright hatred against these people and that largely stems from just a lack of understanding from a lack of co-mingling that that allows the worst stereotypes of the minority group to take root in the minds of the majority and becomes the character by which all all people of middle eastern descent are analyzed.
Lastly though is just segregation.
And we think that broadly speaking segregation you know sort of the separate but equal line of thinking doesn't actually play out.
What widely happens with segregation is a minority population is put into is put into a living situation that is deeply inadequate when compared to the one that the majority has.
A good example of this is that african-americans in the united states are largely relegated to impoverished, resource poor inner-city areas where they are deprived of educational and financial opportunities.
Oum this of course then leads to sort of cyclical poverty where it is difficult for people to escape these harms of their own merit and their own volition because they are starting at a position that is relatively worse than those of people who enjoy power and privilege.
Given that then we think that multiculturalism can help solve for this by making people much more comfortable with like sharing quarters with people that come from different backgrounds, that have different culture and by sharing those faces then you facilitate more upward mobility, you facilitate more thorough integration and you don't have this level of segregation where people are relegated off.
Second and just very quickly is that I think you get a better culture when you have multiculturalism.
A lot of the time cultures can become dominated by unchecked beliefs that without some sort of outside perspective often goes unchallenged.
I think a lot of the times when people talk about the worst elements of a specific culture like things pertaining to you know discrimination against women for example in more conservative cultures that's largely a product of a lack of interaction with other more modern and more accepting cultures.
So when you have this multicultural environment where there is that constant you know dialogue between cultures, I think you're quite likely then to take the best of both worlds and run with that.
Proud to propose.