I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that physical education should be mandatory.
First, just a quick overview on how, you know, the burden structure in this round works.
Because generally speaking, when we're talking about whether or not a government should compel action by individuals, there's a couple standards that independently can be sufficient to justify that requirement.
So, what I mean by this is that obviously the opp line in this round is going to be something to the effect of, " well, you know, you're telling these kids that they got to do a thing, and it's better when you allow them to make the choice, " because individuals are more capable of making choices for themselves that some third-party actor.
That's obviously a high standard that we hold in pretty high regard.
So generally speaking then, we have high bars that we meet to ensure that, you know, that's not that the that the restriction is justified.
I see two, and these are going to be my two independent points.
The first is if there is more or less objective good given to the individual when you enact a restriction, so for example, restrictions that we put on cigarettes, for example, are more or less objective and this is why we are justified in doing them, also why we, you know, require academic education in beyond just physical education.
But secondly is when there's externalities.
That is, you know, also looking at cigarettes, something like secondhand smoke, something where we see that a person that didn't consent into the action is suffering consequences and as a result we are justified in restricting it because, you know, your autonomy doesn't extend to violating other people's preferences.
On the first point, then, regarding objectivity, I think there's a pretty obvious case to be made in terms of, you know, the health benefits of engaging in physical education.
Especially when children are quite young, there is a serious need to ensure that they are physically active.
This country's obesity epidemic really underlines how insufficient a job we are of doing meeting that standard but, you know, just that small amount of physical activity a day, you know, thirty minutes or whatever, that really goes a long way in ensuring the child's long-term physical well-being.
Without that physical education, there really isn't an meaningful check to ensure that they are doing that.
I think a lot of the kids that are getting their proper exercise are the type of kids that are usually fine with doing PE anyway.
These are the more competitive kids, the more active ones.
I think really what PE is designed to do is to target the kids that aren't getting a sufficient amount of exercise on a daily basis, because they're just not the type of the personality type that enjoys doing that on a regular basis.
But it is still important to ensure that they get that physical education, so the government probably is then justified in mandating it.
On the second standard then, regarding externalities, I think a lot of this folds into healthcare costs.
So, this was also flouted a lot during the sugary drinks debate around new york city.
And what happens here is that when you have a substantial amount of people that are, you know, not active enough and by extension, then, not healthy, their healthcare costs go up.
This is, you know, fairly clear why this would happen, you know, that they're more likely to have physical illnesses, they're going to be making more doctors visits, so on so forth.
Given that, the the way the healthcare works essentially is based on a pool.
That is, when one person's costs go up, in order for them to be properly covered, other people's costs also have to go up.
On an individual level, this really doesn't make that big of a difference.
On a larger societal level, when we are undergoing something like an obesity epidemic, that has a really significant impact on healthcare costs.
And, in fact, the united states now is one of the most expensive places to get healthcare in the world, and a large factor in that is just the general unhealthiness of this country.
I think that it is justified to engage in tactics there's explicitly designed to improve the healthiness of individuals within this country when there are broader externalities on other people, people that have to pay more for health care because of other people's , you know, health.
Given that, proud to propose.