I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should legalize the ivory trade.
The model is simple.
We will allow stockpiles only to be sold that is confiscated ivory by countries in which the ivory trade is obviously you know fairly prevalent.
So for example kenya, in the central african republic, have large stockpiles of ivory we will allow them to sell those stockpiles but we are not going to legalize a, sale by non-government actors or b, the actual process of getting ivory from animals in the first place.
Three independent points.
First, this generates income for poor nations.
Most of the nations that are on the front lines of battling the ivory trade are disproportionately poor african nations.
These are weak states that often have difficulty collecting reliable tax revenue and as such have a very small apparatus for actually responding to the front lines of the ivory trade.
The problem we have with the ivory trade is that animals are harmed in the process and as such the most important link to sever is the link where in animal poachers actually extract ivory from rhinos and elephants.
Lacking the infrastructure to enforce anti-poaching laws means that these poor states are often left unequipped to do the most important job of stopping this problematic trade.
If you allow them however to sell off this ivory and generate income that way, then they're able to redirect those funds into actually like stamping down on the poaching itself.
That is the most problematic aspect of the trade.
Our second independent point is that this policy undercuts the black market.
Countries can sell at a low selling point that is significantly lower than the market already solves for.
So if a certain amount of ivory is worth a hundred dollars on the black market, a state actor can undercut them for a lower amount of money say, ninety dollars for that same amount and as such get a larger amount of interested buyers and cut out the black market from a significant portion of their sales.
This in turn means that those who actually do the poaching are crowded out of the market.
Smugglers are likely to leave the profession as are poachers once they have no smugglers to sell to.
This in turn ensures that as you engage in this policy you can essentially crowd out the market from its own industry and in essence kill the demand for actually hunting down these animals in the first place.
Our third independent point and probably most fundamental, is that it reduces the demand for ivory.
The reason why this is true is that you can target sales to lower class individuals.
Most of the demand for ivory right now is driven by a burgeoning chinese middle class that sees ivory as a status symbol.
This in turn drives the incredible amount that is brought into china.
I think like forty percent or possibly even sixty percent of the global ivory trade ends in china.
So at that point then, if you are able to target sales of ivory to lower income individuals and proliferate ownership of ivory among the lower class, you kill the status of ivory as a status symbol.
In essence, what this does is ensure that there isn't as much demand for ivory in the first place because if the middle class doesn't want it then the trend dies and over time the lower class is less interested in it as well.
That intern ensures that there's nobody buying it from the smugglers, who in turn will not buy it from the poachers, who in turn will move to other industries in order to ensure that they are you know making money because ivory doesn't have that money anymore.
As such, a government actor is uniquely positioned to restructure the market to collapse the market.
Proud to propose.