I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion that boxing has to be baned.
So first with regards to the model, I think it's important to recognize that it is within ops ground to say this is a thing that can be regulated.
This is a thing that we can actually take proactive steps to make safer because that's the trajectory of history.
Sports overtime have become safer.
Things like football, for example, where you have to wear helmets now and that didn't used to be the case awhile ago.
The like trajectory of history means that these things are going to become safer in the long term.
So I think you can like ignore a decent amount of government's arguments on face value as a result of that because the trajectory of history means that the harms that they talk about are more likely than not going to disappear in the long term but absent that, there's three independent points that I'd like to announce today.
First that this provides an opportunity for wealth and a positive mindset or or optimistic mindset for minorities and other historically disadvantaged people who are able to take this as an opportunity to achieve some form of wealth.
Secondly, that the violence is demanded at its zero sum level and as a result of this it is unlikely that abolishing boxing is actually going to meaningfully solve for the societal harm that they talk about, and thirdly, that there is just a non-zero pleasure from viewing that exists as a result of this that is worth voting on.
So with regards to the first argument that this provides a path to riches they tell you ons side government that this is not a thing really that like pans out most of the time for people who participate in boxing that it is a misleading claim that people are brought down this path.
So I think two things on that.
First, with regards to individuals, there is just benefits when you are a mike tyson that actually does get rich on this.
This is something that makes your life better.
Mike tyson used to be very poor, very destitute, having a low quality of life.
Now he has a high quality of life.
So on that individual level those people are a benefit that exists from the sport.
Those are people who were given opportunities that they didn't previously have.
But secondly, I think even if this is misleading for the large majority of people that optimistic mindset that is generated by having this new opportunity that's something that's beneficial to them right?
It means that your outlook on the world is less pessimistic.
It means that even though most people of color and most children of color are more likely going to succumb to the absolute horrors of a racist classes society, it is worth having that optimism just on a psychological level.
It means that the individual is able to have a higher quality of life because they're not constantly being weighed down by the specter of they're, more likely than not, mistreatment by society.
Second independent argument is the demand for violence is zero sum.
This is intuitive I think.
This is just this animalistic saying that is sort of a holdover from evolution and as a result like this is the reason why we enjoy boxing right?
I don't think that goes away when you abolish boxing as an institution.
That demand either a just transfer to other sports like football or MMA or whenever, in which case their arguments are literally non-unique.
Like there's no benefits that exist on side government.
Or even worse, that violence transfers into like actual day-to-day violence where people have harmful interactions on the streets and things like that.
I think that's important to recognize then because that's an actual increase in the harm that exists to the individual people and that's something that's seriously worth being concerned about.
My third independent point is the pleasure that people get from viewing this.
Now I think it's important to recognize that this is a serious impact right?
Like a just on scope lots of people view boxing because they enjoy it.
So I think on a day to day basis those individuals have a lower quality of life because this thing that they hold dear and they really really enjoy whether it's something they enter a for, you know, animalistic like reasons for just because it is a form of escapism or something like that.
That is still a thing that matters to them and creates pleasure within the world.
So if you analyze this through like a utilitarian framework you you just care about how much the individual benefits from the existence of an institution, then this is the thing that makes the world a slightly better place.
But secondly, when you recognize that they really don't have offense because they don't solve for systemic violence, that's just a thing to vote off of because it's the only real benefit of the round.
Given these reasons, I think it's really intuitive as to why the track of history means that a their benefits aren't going to materialize, but secondly, that there are actual tangible harms to engaging in this.
As a result of the fact that people do actually benefit from this, that there are individual level benefits that exists from boxing and abolishing it doesn't really solve for the problems, proud to oppose.