I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should increase internet censorship.
I want to begin with a quick overview that I think addresses the lion's share of gov's material and that is that if specific materials are illegal anyway, we don't think that internet censorship is a necessary tool to enforce those laws.
Something like child pornography is illegal in its own right.
The production, distribution, and ownership is itself a crime, so we don't think then that it's actually necessary to even shut down the websites because we think they're just other avenues through which you can prosecute the individuals.
If somebody downloads child pornography, that itself is a crime.
There's no need to bring down the medium because you can just prosecute the existing crimes that are on the books.
Censorship then seems an to be an unnecessary tool for most of gov's impacts.
Our first independent point is that there is a freedom of information intrinsic to the internet, and that on this basis, government intervention is unjustified.
We think that there really two basis for this.
The first is more tied to freedom of speech, that is sort of the autonomy that is intrinsic to you know basic human rights, the freedom to do with your life as one pleases, and this is rooted in the fact that people are the best proxy for their own interests.
We think then that it is unreasonable for governments to limit their you know basic our basic rights to access things that we please and that make us individually happy, and as such, absent things that are already illegal for obvious reasons, we think that government limits on what sort of information and what sort of materials we can access are unjustified.
Even if this is something like you know isis ideology there is still a problem intrinsically with people intervening in individuals' want to access that material.
But I think the second problem with these restrictions is that there isn't objectivity that's intrinsic to any government.
We think that no conception of the good life is inherently correct, insofar as our preferences are often shaped by the societies that we grow up in.
So our perceptions of things like religion and things like justified uses of force are shaped by that society, not by any sort of like universal moral code that is inherently objective.
As such, it is unreasonable for governments to enforce a specific moral code.
But secondly, and I think this sort of ties back into it, our second independent point is that there isn't a justification for jurisdiction over the internet because the internet is something that is international.
We think then, because this is something international in nature and not defined by state borders, it is unjust for individual governments to intervene in the type of information that is conveyed over it.
Look at the you know the basic nature of this is that it is a way for people to communicate across state borders, and it is a subculture in and of itself.
No government has the right to intervene in this as such.
Our third independent point is that it warrants persecution narratives.
So I think even if you take the objective moral code and you say, okay this is what is inherently right and this is what is inherently wrong, I still think that there is a pragmatic problem with internet censorship, and that is that often these sort of like dredges of the internet your your neo nazi and your isis fighters thrive off of narratives that paint them is persecuted.
The reason for this is that they often recruit people themselves who feel that they are isolated from the rest of society or rejected by it, and as such when isis or neo nazis or whomever can essentially put forward a narrative that says we are persecuted too, we are also being targeted by the masses of society, there is you know a better ability to recruit essentially that they are more capable of bringing in large numbers of people to their cause.
We think then that there is a significant amount of backlash associated with internet censorship, and that because it is impossible to fully regulate every corner of the internet, you can never achieve a full shut down of these organizations.
Rather, you can just push them further and further underground where they are tougher to fight and where they are more capable of bringing in large numbers of people who themselves see themselves as rejected.
Proud to oppose.