I'm proud to stand in proposition for today's motion that cannabis should be legalized.
Three independent points: first, that it is a paternalistic policy to ban people from engaging in consensual actions, second, that legalization will decrease the power and the harms of black markets, and third, that implementation in the status quo has racist undertones.
First on paternalism.
It's important to recognize that, autonomy is a good in and of itself, that it is the fundamental right that we derive all others from.
The reason that we care about, for example, our right to life, is because we have the ability to do things with that life, so, going off of that, them, it's important that the baseline, that we attribute all policies by, is: does this allow people to do things, right?
The reason we don't like murder, or stealing, or things like that, is because it limits other people's ability to act within a way that actually makes their individual lives better.
So, it's important then that, when there's not externalities, we allow people to just make decisions for themselves, that they can consent into harm at so.
So it's important to recognize then, that if op gets up here and it says that this is a harmful drug, or it is something that creates harm to the individual, that's not enough of a reason for you to vote for op.
It's important to recognize that, the person has the right to engage in that action.
My second independent point is that block markets, in the status quo, are extremely harmful.
So, these exist already, right?
Things like cartels in mexico, things like even just street dealers in some suburb, exist already, and we crowd those out by legalization, because people prefer to buy in a market that has less risk.
You're less likely to be caught up in gang violence, you are less likely to be cheated out of your product, because there's no regulatory body to oversee the person engaging in a transaction with you.
People prefer to operate in the legal market, if it's an option.
So, what are the harms then, of the black market, that we get rid of by legalization?
Three independent: first, cartels, in and of themselves, create lots of violence.
When you have a black market, it is easy for powerful actors to grab up large shares of market, creating effective monopolies, that they protect those monopolies by use of violence.
This leads to huge amounts of death, it leads to mass amount of suffering.
Second is safety regulations.
It's important to note that like, when you have a black market, there's no one able to come into a production plant, and say you're not up to code, you're selling a product that is going to be harmful to people.
We should always prefer a world, where you have that regulatory capacity to step in, and say: this is an unsafe product, you are creating harm onto people by giving that product to them.
Third is access to children.
It's a lot easier for people that are probably not developmentally ready to consume this item, like the people that are most likely to be harmed by it, and the people that have the least information available then to meaningfully consent into it, are most likely going to be reached by the black market.
The reason why this is true is that, it's easy to crack down on the individual sellers, that are going around age age of sale laws like, for example, with alcohol, when you actually have a legal system, that can be regulated.
When this is not the case with a black market, it' this is why it's, like, easier for kids to get pot than it is for them to get alcohol.
So, the people, that are most vulnerable then, are more likely to be subjected to harm, in a world where the black market rules.
My third independent point is racism, and how specifically the implementation of the current law uses a tool of oppression primarily against african american communities.
Is important to recognize that, this isn't a law that's applied equally.
This is a law that is generally used to put large amounts of black men into prison, and largely used as an excuse for other things.
Things, like possession of small amounts of marijuana, can become a front for engaging in a as a means of arresting someone for something fairly unrelated, something like a traffic stop.
People cops will, like, search cars for drugs, in order to justify the arrest, things like that.
So, it's important to get rid of this tool that is used to put down black males in the status quo, and open up, like, our laws in a way that is much more reasonable.
Proud to propose.