I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should ban human cloning.
Our first independent point is the spillover technology associated with human cloning.
So we think that when you're talking about you know creating a new human in a test tube or whatever lab environment you're looking at there's a lot associated with that process that's important to understanding the human body at a very fundamental level much in the way that research for things like say going to the moon don't necessarily have to have a you know intrinsic end point gain or value because the research that's conducted along the way often leads to benefits.
We think that human cloning would have profound impacts on our medical understanding of the human body.
We think that the ability to generate an entire human being would also yield technology relating to you know generation of limbs or other body parts that people might be missing.
This could solve for the organ donation shortage that many countries experience.
This could solve you know the need for prosthetics which are often unwieldy and comparatively less valuable than just having a limb in the first place.
We think then that even if you buy all of government's arguments about the suffering endured by clones we think that there are massive impacts on the medical community and medical research in a way that greatly outweighs it.
This is true for two reasons.
First we think that the rights of clones are questionable.
At the point where we derive human rights you know from a specifically human centric perspective we often for example don't extend the same rights to animals as we do to humans.
We think there is something innate about membership in humanity that gives you rights.
At that point then we think it is unlikely that people will value kit clones as like having individual rights - but secondly we think this was more a more significant issue.
Because we believe that there are just going to be like more regular people than there will be clones especially in the early days we imagine the clones will be incredibly expensive to develop so given that we think then that the the medical benefits associated with it will benefit billions of people whereas on the rights infringements upon clones will be relatively minimal due to the small number of clones.
Our second independent point is that we think that this can literally just make for better people.
So gov has like a lot of hand wringing over whether or not you know companies or firms or whatever are going to self select for traits that they find desirable.
I think that this is probably a good thing though because a lot of the times the traits that would be selected for are traits that are generally pretty widely accepted as good things by society.
Like for all the hand wringing about like eugenics or whatever I think the comparative here is that we're not going to eradicate the people that have traits were trying to root out we'll obviously still continue to provide for people that for example have heart conditions at birth.
But we also think that it's nice to have a system wherein we can genetically select for genes that make you less likely to have heart conditions.
At that point then we think that the select a the research associate with cloning can make this an easier process but b that by creating clones that are biologically comparable to humans we can literally just have clones enter the gene pool and like create a gene pool that you know reduces the number of people with you know medical complications at birth and that sort of thing.
Our third and final independent point is that we think that clones have utility in and of themselves.
So I think a lot of what I've discussed already kind of demonstrates this at a very big scale level but we think even at an individual level clones can just make for a better society.
I think much like say in like brave new world there's like a world where you can just make clones that aren't necessarily self aware that are almost like animals to an extent and at that point then we think a lot of the labor benefits that you incur from having clones at a cheap level are fairly acceptable because they would have a right structure that's relatively comparable to animals.
But we also think that that utility derives from the fact that you're essentially telling a few clones superhumans that they have to sort of sacrifice their rights for the good of for the greater good and we think that infringement of rights upon a select group of clones is makes it worth the up vast benefits that would be brought to humanity.
Proud to oppose.