I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should increase racial profiling in airports.
Our first independent point is that there are rights violations intrinsic to this practice.
So, first we think that these are fundamentally arbitrary practices that while there is certainly a stereotype of our minds and perhaps even a statistical correlation of like black and brown individuals being more likely to commit these crimes, we don't think that a, it is to an extent that is significantly higher enough that warrants mass rights violations inflicted upon people of these races but b, we don't think that the crimes of the few should make the many suffer.
That is to say that just because a few individuals of middle eastern descent are you know members of terrorist cells that inflict harm upon others, that doesn't justify subjecting the hundreds of millions of people that happen to be of the same race to enhanced interrogation techniques essentially.
So specifically what is the nature of the rights violations that we're looking at?
I think it's interesting when government tells you oh we're not going to strip search or like do any of those other over the top things we're just going to be engaging in enhanced searching.
So I want to clarify that if enhanced searching isn't strip searches and other stuff like that, I really don't know what it is because like absent the thing where they just kind of like swab your hands down like that's it like that that that's what enhanced searching is.
When they pull you over in line like that's what they're going to do.
So I think it's important then to recognize that there is a significant burden placed upon innocent individuals who have done nothing wrong and simply happen to share a skin color with people have done something wrong.
That in and of itself is a rights violation, specifically a violation of one's rights to privacy that is insofar as privacy is you know key to a lot of other rights like the ability to you know do is one please without fear of retaliation unnecessarily, but it's also a violation of one's right to bodily autonomy, to have as one pleases done to one's body.
We think that you know strip searches especially are extremely invasive and definitely constitute a significant rights violation in terms of that.
Again, it is probably fair for gov to say that these individual violations don't amount to the same as an individual right to life for example that stems from like an airplane attack.
We also think that these attacks are so rare that it in the aggregate the rights violations that come from random interrogations probably outweigh the significance of like those like another nine-eleven as is demonstrated by the fact that nine-eleven was like sixteen years ago.
Our second independent point is that racial profiling isn't effective.
It's easy to dodge because if you just recruit people that don't match the profile then you can just have them carry out the attacks instead.
Like isis has white people and those white people can just conduct the attacks if really explicit racial profiling actively distracts the TSA from looking into people who aren't brown.
Given that, we think it's just like a bad way of ensuring safety and at that point then I think a lot of govs offense about specifically protecting innocents right to life falls through.
If anything, this is the worse tactic of insuring people safety and as such actively infringes upon those rights.
Our third independent point is the narrative that centers around racial profiling.
So, specifically, govs gives them lip service to the notion that you know we'd rather have racial profiling happen explicitly than implicitly, implying that racial profiling is something that happens anyway.
I think the problem here is that when it happens explicitly, that's actually a boon for recruiting for terrorist cells.
Terrorist cells specifically do the recruiting on the basis that people feel alienated from society at large and specifically individuals of middle eastern descent often feel the effects of islamophobia in a very real and tangible way.
Cells like al qaeda and isis then utilize that sense of alienation to recruit individuals into being terrorists.
This of course is a huge driving force in their ability to conduct attacks, so we think it's problematic then when things that could easily be cast as blatant islamophobia are able to be shaped into that narrative and are able to you be used to affirm the notion that isis says you know you are an outcast of society, join us and we'll fight against the oppressors.
Proud to oppose.