I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should ban partial birth abortions.
So two independent points.
First on the right to an abortion and why this procedure is facilitative to that right.
Gov gives you a pretty good explanation of why there's a positive right to abortion.
So I don't think that I need to rehash that too extensively but I do just want to note that first, there is not really a good standard by which to apply rights to a fetus, but secondly, that there is a bodily autonomy claim that is extremely important for these women.
I think both of these justifications though are important because they don't change with the time frame in which you're actually applying the abortion.
Like if the fetus doesn't have rights it's because they don't have consciousness or because you know a potential person probably just isn't worth as much as an actual person in terms of how we apportion life.
Likewise with bodily autonomy your bodily autonomy does not go out the window just because you made the decision a couple months later.
Both of these are really important then because you continue having that right to an abortion even in like your eighth month of pregnancy or whatever.
Given that, we think that there are grounds for needing this something like term changes and circumstance for how you would be capable of raising a child.
You know suicidal depression which often can take a long time to develop if the you know pregnancy was for reasons that are actually necessarily triggering that can actually trigger like mental illnesses.
This is important because insofar as there is any grounds for needing this, we think that there should be a positive right to accessing the procedure.
Recognize that this isn't a popular option.
It's like point two percent of all abortions and there's a good reason for that.
Not just the ban, but because people don't like doing it.
All the reasons that gov explains to you as to why this is a very visceral thing that people aren't wild about, are also reasons why people don't like to do it themselves.
This isn't something that happens frequently but we think that it's only used in extreme circumstances where it's exceptionally necessary, where there really isn't another option and as a result of that we need to preserve the right to actually have this procedure.
Our second independent point is politics.
So we think that gov's real case really rests in this because they're first point that oh well you know they can do it sometime else in the procedure isn't really an argument the generous offense, that's just mitigating defense but the politics argument that they put forward that you know this is really visceral and people will be upset by it, anti-abortion advocates will latch on to it as a way to do you know sort of demonstrate the horrors of abortion or whatever we think that actually quite the opposite happens that instituting a band gives an inch to anti-abortion acts activists by creating a precedent in like public discourse for fetal rights.
This implicitly admits that there is some bright line at which you know the fetus actually house rights, that they have personhood, and should be protected and I think this is really silly when you actually think about the underlying logic here right?
Like if they have rights then you ban abortion outright because they're people.
If they don't have rights, then there really shouldn't be any type of abortion that should be illegal because they don't have rights.
Like it's an either or situation and having a gray zone doesn't make any sense fundamentally and I think people realize this.
Like when you have bans on partial birth abortions and you implicitly admit that this is something that should be unacceptable, then people latch on to this as a result as a you know just as an admission essentially that fetuses have rights.
This is a problem then for people that actually want to increase access to these procedures because it spreads the increases the spread of anti-abortion arguments and the normalization of this type of discourse in the country.
I think this is a really big issue and generally speaking, you should be going for the holistic argument, one that is logically consistent, one that says look fetuses just don't have rights.
They are not people and as a result we think that it's really silly to extend them this right by banning these types of procedures.
Proud to oppose.