I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should lower the drinking age.
Three independent points, the first of which is that the specific standard the government sets, the age of majority, is bad.
And the reason for this is at the age of majority, the rights afforded to you, like voting and things like that and driving and what not, often lead to particular forms of development and maturity itself.
That is, that the age of majority isn't often not designed in such a way that it is like by eighteen, you will be mature enough to do a lot of these things.
It is designed in such a way that affording you these privileges will get you to become a more mature person by exposing you to new things in life.
There are also things that you want to have done before the age of majority to prepare you for things like voting, but the point is that the age of maturity itself develops the individual.
This is important then because we think that drinking is something that is a particularly important decision, not just in terms of the way that it can affect your life, but also in terms of the fact that you need significant amounts of information about it before you can really participate in informed consent.
What we mean by informed consent is that an individual has to be aware of the consequences of a particular action before we really begin to respect their right to consent into that action.
A lot of government's case circles around consent, but the problem with this is that if an individual isn't old enough to understand the consequences the action, it isn't reasonable to call that consenting into the action or autonomy by any means.
Our second independent point is that people will always drink before the drinking age.
Gov makes a lot of noise over the fact that people tend to abuse the drinking age and drink before it's legal.
The problem is that the reason people do that is because drinking is seen as more or less a status symbol, something that people do to be rebellious or as a cultural thing.
For example, in france, where the drinking age is much lower, people start drinking at an even younger age.
So if you can start drinking at like sixteen, then you just start actually doing it at fourteen.
The problem with this is twofold: one, the information inbalance that I discussed earlier scales out to an even greater extent the younger you go.
So, if you let people drink at eighteen, at, yeah, at eighteen, and then they start drinking actually at like fifteen or sixteen, then those information the lack of ability to access meaningful information on the practice is even greater.
But secondly, there become significant health impacts at such a young age that, in addition to problems with binge drinking, there are just demonstrated pediatric studies that show that brain development is significantly damaged by drinking at a young age.
Given that then, it's reasonable for us to put limits that ensure that the goal post is significantly higher.
That is, if we tell people you can drink at twenty-one and they start drinking at eighteen instead, that is significantly preferable.
Our third and final independent point is parental rights.
So, we believe that especially at a young age, like in your teenage years, children, again, don't have access to the necessary information to make informed decisions on everything that they do.
Given that, we afford a lot of latitude to parents in being essentially the proxies for their best interest, because parents do have access to that information.
They've lived longer lives and understand more about the world.
So with drinking particularly then, we think that children are uninformed in the consequences of this action and as such, it is reasonable to proxy off the decision about whether or not they can engage in drinking to a parent.
The problem is so, obviously, like a lot of the time, particularly in the united states, there is a culture of parents, if they are okay with it, just allowing their kids to have drinks before it's legal, and usually this isn't cracked down on.
But, if you would lower the drinking age to such a rate that it's just legal for children to do of their own volition, parents can't make that decision for them and as such, you lose the ability to proxy out that decision to someone that's more informed.
We think that at this age, the parent is the past proxy because of the lack of information the child has and as such, we should ensure that parents have the latitude to make this decision, not children.
Proud to oppose.