I'm proud to stand in opposition of the motion that we should guarantee universal health care.
Our first independent point is that guaranteeing universal healthcare is particularly expensive and creates a significant drag on government coffers.
The united states is a good example of this where already eventhough we're not even covering everybody a significant portion of our country's spending is sunk into health care costs things like medicare and medicaid.
This isn't a cheap thing to provide for people and one of the fundamental reasons for it is that the more coverage is sponsored by the government the more of the healthcare costs.
The reason for this is a what's called a a principal agent issue that is when the person who's paying for the good isn't the person who benefits for the good.
There's a problem both in terms of the quality of the good provided but also in terms of the incentive of payment.
The united states government faces political pressure to make payments regardless of what the quality of the care provided is as such then they are often going to pay increasing amounts of money for the same costs.
This is a problem because the money that the united states government pays doesn't come from like thin air it comes from the government's coffers and this is money that can easily be reallocated to more effective uses of capital while healthcare is a facilitative right other things like housing and food are also facilitative rights so we think at the point where the government has to make active decisions on what it's going to spend its money on we think that it is better for the government to spend money on something like housing programs or snap benefits which will ensure that facilitative rights are still being met but it will do so in a way that doesn't actually create ballooning costs within that industry.
Our second independent point is that there is a need to consent out and we think this is a fundamental right.
We think the people should specifically have the right to consent out of healthcare.
This is an informed decision that is that people often will make it a conscious decision about whether or not healthcare is a smart bennett is a smart investment for them and we think particularly younger people often see that they are quite healthy and not in need of paying a significant portion of their income towards health care rather they would rather just keep the money and given that the chance of them needing to go to the hospitals quite small spend on other important things like food and shelter.
The issue though is that if universal healthcare is guaranteed even if there's an opt out capacity there can't be an opt out capacity you need something like what the united states on obamacare an individual mandate to ensure that the system will operate because the functional nature of health care pools is that you balloon up the costs that are going to be created by the sick people by having the healthy people pay into it.
This is a problem then because if we find that individuals have a right to consent out of this product and make the active decision that they're not going to sink their money into something that they don't need than the system fails.
Either you engage in mass rights violations or you just have a failing health care system.
Either way this is significantly worse than the status quo.
Our third independent point is that providing universal healthcare is redistributive economics and those are bad.
So specifically what we mean is that how the providing universal healthcare at the point where most wealthy people already have health care anyway involves taking money from wealthier individuals and putting it into public social spending programs that will then be reallocated to poorer individuals.
The problem with this is that wealthy individuals have a rights claim to their property that is the capital that is then being taxed in then reinvested into poor individuals.
We think that quite often they earned this money giving them a particular deserve claim to it but beyond this we think that it is also a fundamental violation of one's property rights to take their property from them forcefully.
This in turn is a significant abuse on the part of the government.
Proud to oppose.