I am proud to oppose the motion that we should lower the age of consent.
Three independent points: first is parental rights.
So I want to establish something quite clearly: that the way the status quo looks is that if someone who is under age has sex with someone who is above the age of consent by a considerable amount, I'll get to the romeo and juliet laws and a little bit but, like for the meantime let's recognize that it's a considerable gap in the status quo, what happens is the parents make an active decision on whether or not they're going to press charges against that individual.
We think this is important because it ensures that parents have the right to some degree of autonomy over their child sexual activity.
The reason that we often make decisions about whether or not kids can make specific choices for themselves is because they don't have the necessary information about the world in order to have informed consent.
That is to say that they understand the implications of what they're doing and as such can agree to those implications.
We proxy those decision making powers off to the parents in situations like say, where they're going to go to school or whether they go to school, things like that.
In order to ensure that, essentially, someone who knows their best interest but also understands the world can help them with the decision making process.
We think that lowering the age of consent then infringes upon those parental rights because it gets rid of the legal mechanism that allows parents to have some say in their child's sexual activity.
Often at such a young age, children don't understand the long term consequences of things like unprotected sex, sex in a relationship with a power imbalance due to the age gap, and other associated harms.
As such we think it's important to protect that parental right to consent or parental right.
Our second independent point is power imbalances in relationships.
So government talks pretty extensively about romeo and juliet laws.
I want this to be clear, romeo and juliet laws exist in the status quo.
So if a seventeen year old has or a sixteen year old, rather, has sex with like an eighteen year old or a nineteen year old, that's already legal in most states.
I think the difference that's being established on side government is just how low you push the bar.
You're not getting rid of the gray zone on our side of the house.
So then I think what's important to recognize is that power imbalances are that exist in relationships can basically jump drastically over a small age range.
So the amount of you know sexual maturity that an individual has and their knowledge of you know how relationships work and what consent is is drastically different between say ages sixteen and eighteen.
We think that it's fundamentally problematic then to push the age of consent as low as government is insisting because we think if you push it down to like sixteen that creates like legal justification for a sixteen year old to say have sex with like a forty year old.
That level of power imbalance is unacceptable and we think that it's important to ensure that once this person is free to have sex with someone of any age, they are actually ready to make those decisions and they are capable of you know essentially standing up for themselves in situations where their age imbalance might materialize into a power imbalance.
Our third independent point is the signal that this policy sends.
So we think that generally, the state should look out for the interests of people.
We think that a lot of the rhetoric surrounding age of consent laws is essentially protecting children.
That is to signal that people of this age, our children, are incapable often of informed consent of their own volition and as such need protection from the state.
We think that lowering this age of consent sends the signal that people between sixteen and eighteen don't need those protections, that they are capable of fending for themselves.
We think that oftentimes this isn't true.
So even beyond just the pragmatic impacts of what this policy entails, we think there's a problematic signal sent from the state that then creates a societal discursive shift that is problematic for the individuals that are now going to be losing their legal protections.
Proud to oppose.