I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should introduce goal line technology in football games.
Two independent points.
First is the human element that is associated with the status quo.
We think that sports in general have a disturbing trend that they're moving towards in adopting technology to replace the rules of humans.
This is problematic a, because we think that a significant portion of why we enjoy sports in general has to do with that human element of it that is the impressiveness of seeing human beings achieve individual feats and we think that extends as well to the refereeing that this is something that we care about having that human connection with but b, because we think that a lot of decisions that are made in football and other sports have assess a certain context associated with that is that there is a need to make subjective decisions on individual things and that when you introduce machines into these sports, you lose that capacity to make contextual decisions from the human perspective.
With specific regard to goals in football, you know we think that there are different situations in which you know the computer technology can fail to appropriately record whether or not a goal is made based on essentially the parameters that are initially fed to the machine.
This is a problem then for two reasons.
One, we think that it sets a trend in football towards machine recording in general.
So I think even if you don't believe that goal line technology is specifically an abuse we think that this sets in motion a slippery slope of moving towards more machine based recording and decision making in sports that is less capable of accounting for the context of a specific action.
But secondly, we think that it's a problem because because there is abuses that are going to happen in real time essentially that you won't know the machine has an intrinsic issue with it until that issue arises and makes that mistake and because of the nature of the way that football works, you can't go back on that decision after it's been made if the call's been made then the call was made and you've made that decision for goal line technology to supplant the role of the referee in that scenario given that we think that it least at the beginning there arw inevitably going to be faulty calls because the machine will essentially be tested out in real time in actual games where those faulty decisions will essentially become law.
Our second independent point is hacking.
So we think that obviously there are some arguments that gov brings forward about subjectiveness and potentially even corruption amongst referees.
Largely we think that this is a fairly silly.
Referees are generally hired by the league and are fairly objective.
The problem with goal line technology then is two fold.
The first is that it is a computer run and as such it is subject to hacking sports fans care very deeply about the outcome of games and we don't think it's you know hard to imagine somebody you know making that decision to actively tamper with this technology in an effort to benefit their own team but beyond this we think that actually the goal line technology is often managed in house through technology housed in individual stadiums and as such teams themselves can actually manipulate this technology with relative ease that then opens a significantly easier door for corruption and problems within this technology that we think mitigates the usefulness of this certainly defining accuracy but also in terms of the fairness that gov touts.
Proud to oppose.