I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should abolish the anti social behavioral disorders.
So broadly our you know concern here is that we decrease anti social behavior.
We think that anti social behavior is particularly problematic because unlike most other types of criminal offenses which are you know very clear cut you know like robbing a store for example is like it's pretty clear to define what constitutes robbing a store antisocial behavior is much harder to pin down and as such it's harder to crack down upon with the type of like legal constraints and protections that government is discussing.
None the less we still think it has profound impacts.
Something like for example being a nuisance in a public square has a pretty tangible impact on a lot of the people that are occupying that public space.
You know playing your music really loud has an effect on your neighbors both in terms of the irritation it generates but also in terms of their ability to sleep things like that.
So we think that criminal law should be concerned principally with mitigating damage upon innocent people and preventing them from experiencing harm even if the harm is somewhat minimal.
At that point then we think that anti social behavioral disorders are uniquely equipped to deal with that.
Three independent points pertaining to the mechanisms by which the anti social behavioral disorders mitigate the proliferation of anti social behavior.
First is that it acts as a deterrent so we think that oftentimes people who are going to engage in particular behaviors do so on a cost benefit analysis.
If I'm going to rob a store for example I'm less likely to do it if I you know fear that I'm going to be penalized for it.
I think that robbery would be much more common if it wasn't a crime.
Likewise with even you know smaller offenses that presumably bring even less benefit to the individual person there is a significant deterrent created by a potential looming penalty that is to say that you know I might really like sitting out on my porch and playing music off my gramophone loudly but I'm way less likely to do it if there's actually like a criminal penalty for doing so.
So we think that laws like this create a significant capacity for people to say oh I'm not going to do that because there's like this ridiculous fine or this ridiculous penalty that might be levied against me if I do so.
Secondly we think that the anti social behavioral disorders are more adaptable than typical criminal law.
So specifically government takes issue with the broadness of these laws but we think that that's good because of how difficult antisocial behavior is to pin down.
A lot of the time the specific action that creates a nuisance is different and as such it's hard to create a consistent law passed by the legislature in a timely fashion that appropriately responds to these public nuisances.
We think having a broadly applicable and sort of like adaptable flexible law is good to ensure that we actually have the capacity in the legal infrastructure to crackdown on these behaviors.
Absent that flexibility we think that law enforcement is just going to be inherently poor more poorly equipped to deal with anti social behavior.
And our third point is that these orders are you know just good at blocking people from doing these things.
A lot of the time antisocial behavior is often conducted by a specific group of people so the gramophones thing is often done by more elderly people like this is the typical example for when the anti social behavioral orders are like often implemented.
And because you have the capacity to in a criminal court basically put a restraining order on the activity prevent people from doing it we think that that then increases you know the ability to stop people from doing it because you could actually put you know a specific legal document down saying you can't do this anymore so that ensures that the harm generated by set action occurs less frequently.
Proud to oppose.