I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should legalize polygamy.
Our first independent point is that we think that the nuclear family is not only preferable for society at large but also this traditional construct of a two parent nuclear family is better for kids.
So first on society or actually first on kids.
We think that largely the you know the structures that come from raising a child are largely based on one, having sort of like positive role models that you spend a significant portion of your time with but b, having clear delineations and who cares for children.
We think that both of these are significantly more complicated in a polygamous marriage because you believe that at the end of the day.
You know this is something that a, your kid is going to have less time with each individual parent when their time is essentially being spread out more, but also we believe that making those delineations on who spends time with the kid is going to be more complicated with a large set of parents.
That in turn creates the problem of you know essentially you know having your parents and you know have these arguments over who take care takes care of you when.
And of course this happens in two parent structures but we think it's inherently more problematic when there's like more people which enables more buck passing on responsibility.
So this really isn't like a good environment to raise a child in.
But we think that the societal norms stem from the fact that just generally its proliferation which will happen through legalization, we'll get to that moment.
But we think that that proliferation then sort of normalizes it in society in a way that exposes you know more kids to it and as such increases the magnitude of harm.
Our second independent point is that we think the polygamy decreases barriers to the abusive marriage as an institution.
So one hypothetical example of this is say like a group of mobsters who want to avoid testifying against one another, so as such they just like enter a polygamous marriage and as such don't have to testify because they have spousal privilege.
The reason this doesn't happen in the status quo is because you're only allowed to marry one person at a time, so if they're all in their own marriages then like you can't do that.
But if they you know if you have polygamous marriages people can essentially enter and leave marriages as they choose and as they feel free to.
So this creates then a significantly lower barrier to abusing the legal privileges associated with marriage, and as such means that people can you know essentially flop the law and do other you know problematic things like like say taxes for example by you know entering a marriage with one another.
Our third and final independent point is just the abuses that are associated with polygamy.
So we think that but obviously like the big highlighted example is sort of these like more conservative religious groups that often have a lot of like spousal abuse in polygamous relationships.
We think that the proliferation of polygamous relationships will outweigh the legal protections discussed by side government, so that is to say that even if it is easier to be report reviews in each individual polygamous relationship, the fact that there will be more polygamous relationships means that on net there will be more suffering.
We think that the reason why there will be an increase is you know a very simple essentially just that in the status quo even if this is something you're doing behind closed doors there is a risk of penalty that disincentivizes people from doing it.
There's also a social stigma associated with it that reduces the amount of marriages, but we think that both of these go away when you have that government stamp of approval.
But secondly we think that the abuse associated with polygamy is inherent sexism, that this is almost always going to be one man and several women and we think that the presence of this type of marriage and its proliferation in the public eye reifies the notion that women are here simply property of men and that itself as a societal norm is inherently problematic.
Proud to oppose.