I am proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should abolish monarchies.
Before getting into my independent points, I'd like to offer a small bit of clarification.
For the purposes of this debate, I will refer to monarchies like the UK as weak monarchies.
These are monarchies where there's not a lot of central power-making, decision-making rather, given to the monarch.
I will refer to strong monarchies as well, meaning countries like saudi arabia, countries like qatar, where the monarch actually has decision-making power that is more or less absolute over the entire country.
With that, two independent points.
The first is that monarchies afford stability.
I think this plays out in very different ways between weak and strong monarchies.
In weak monarchies, this is through a sense of morale.
This is, as gov admits, a cultural point of the country, but I think it's notable that it's not just a historical thing, that this isn't just something that is, " oh well, this was part of our history, so we should just continue doing it for the sake of preserving our history. "
I don't think that's what it is.
I think it has a modern-day value, that there is this sense of confidence established in your government, by some sort of central figure, that is often above the fray of politics and above the petty infighting.
And as such, it allows people to have a significant amount of confidence in their government.
I think you can see this in the UK where, even if there's a lot of attention between tories and the labour party, you're still going to see a lot of confidence in the queen.
That's important, because it means that people have a sense of confidence in their government, that they feel secure with the country that they're living in, that they are happy in this place, and as a result that they are confident that their government is working to do things that will assist them.
That peace of mind is valuable, but it's also valuable in mitigating the amount of vitriol that is present in politics.
Look to the united states as an example of when this can get extremely out of hand, that without that mitigating force, things can get outright dangerous, through things like acts of violence perpetuated by members of particular parties.
And as a result of that, we think that the monarchy is a reasonable tradeoff.
But even looking at strong monarchies, I think there is still incredible value the in the stability provided there.
For one thing, there isn't uncertainty in decision-making decision-making patterns.
When you look to something like the united states, there's a lot of fluctuation between what's happening on one day or in one election cycle or another.
Over the course of two years, the landscape of who's running the country can shift drastically, and that has extreme implications on our foreign policy, on our domestic policy, on the way people feel about their government.
That instability is a problem.
But secondly, it mitigates power cycles.
So, what I mean by this is that in democracies, there are often lots of conflicting forces based on electoral incentives that compel actors to act in ways that they don't actually think is reasonable.
A lot of policy makers, for example, will pursue things like unreasonable protections for gun owners, or ridiculous health care policies, or any number of things that people do genuinely understand are bad ideas, but they have electoral incentives, driven by people that don't understand the policies very well, to make bad decisions.
This isn't true for monarchies.
They don't have to act in this way.
They don't have to be accountable to individuals that aren't understanding of the ways in which governments work.
But furthermore, they don't have to worry about things like lobbyists, because they're above that fray.
They don't have to worry about their campaign coffers and as a result, monied interests don't affect them.
Our second independent briefly independent point briefly is that the means by which you would achieve abolishing monarchies are questionable.
This isn't going to happen voluntarily, so I think really the only way they can accomplish this is with some sort of violent revolution.
Generally speaking, these cause a lot of suffering and a lot of pain.
I think even if you buy that, on net, the arguments brought forward by gov are slightly preferable, something like the current civil war in syria, I think that amount of suffering makes it not worth the transition into a slightly better form of government, even if you buy that it is better.
Proud to oppose.