I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
My first independent point is that hydroelectric dams disrupt the local ecosystem.
Ask of points out there is significant impact on the local environment particularly the river itself generated by the presence of a hydroelectric dam.
The guv example of this is migratory fish but we think it's actually much more profound than that.
We think that specifically the flow rate of an individual river can affect things like whether or not animals can bathe and drink from that whether river we think it shapes the actual landscape down river because river speed determines whether or not it washes up sand in a particular way or it carves out land in a particular way to form a deeper river basin and as such entire ecosystems not just within the river that rely on the river itself to move but also rivers surrounding ecosystem supported by the river such as say like bears or something that live nearby are heavily dependent on a precise flow rate at the river.
We think then that when one introduces a hydroelectric dam this has a profound impact on the ecosystem.
This is important for two reasons.
First we believe that in any damages sustained by wildlife in and of themselves are problematic because we believe that it's important to mitigate animal suffering.
We think that rights are derived largely from whether or not a being has preferences that is to say whether or not it can say that is painful I don't want it to happen to me.
At that point then we think it's important to preserve you know animal life and access to you know good water food that sort of thing to ensure it has a healthy and happy life.
But secondly we think that preserving ecosystems is important even from a human centric position because large amounts of things like that humans derive from the ecosystem are reliant on its stability.
Things like food.
Things like research.
These sorts of things are heavily disrupted when the ecosystem itself is disrupted because even minor changes can cause large chain reactions in food chains and in life support systems like rivers.
Our second independent point is that hydroelectric dams have comparatively lower employment rates than other forms of energy including renewable energy and at that point we think that contrary to government's model we should do you prioritize construction of them.
Energy infrastructures is an important employer largely because of how much staffing it often requires.
Things like say nuclear power plants require a large amount of people constantly staffing it to ensure that you know things don't go wrong.
And we think that's important because it provides people with jobs.
This is of course you know the life blood of any economy is insuring that people have the capital to buy things so that the wheels can keep turning.
Hydroelectric dams have low employment rates though precisely because of the benefits touted by side government that they run more or less automatically and really only need occasional maintenance from high skilled workers.
That's a problem because as compared to something like say nuclear power or like say solar power there isn't a lot of day to day maintenance there isn't a need for a large employment staff and as a result we think that even if energy costs are slightly higher without hydroelectric power there is a significantly higher impact on the broader economy by the lower employment rates generated by this form of technology.
Our third and final independent point is that this is simply an eyesore.
So we think that a lot of rivers particularly run through scenic areas that have both cultural and more tourism related reasons for maintaining their beauty.
Hydroelectric dams are often large unwieldy and not very pleasant to look at and because they're situated on rivers they're often creating an eyesore in the most beautiful part of the landscape we think then that because a there are preferences in the locals to keep these areas looking the way that they look and b there more fiscal reasons tied to things like the tourism industry it's problematic to create large eye sores like this.
Proud to oppose