I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt libertarianism.
Three independent points, but first a quick model.
We would say that this is, you know, something we are adopting in terms of a governmental structure, so specifically a governmental structure that necessitates less involvement of the state into personal affairs.
This means, you know, everything from lower taxes and less regulations all the way down to, you know, less involvement in shaping social policy, like what constitutes marriage.
We'd endure, say, wide array of policies underneath this framework, but broadly we're going to defend the notion that government should just do less essentially, and a private citizen should be making more decisions about what happens to them rather than the government making those decisions for them.
The first independent point that I really just broadly want to establish is why these principles matter, that autonomy, on an individual level, is something that's really, really important.
So, the majority of our constructs of what constitute our rights is derived from autonomy being the principal thing that we care about.
Even something as fundamental as our right to life is only based on the fact that we, you know, have a life where we can make decisions about what happens to us and, you know, what freedoms we have.
That autonomy and that liberty is really fundamental to our entire perception of what constitutes a right.
So this is something that we should always take with, you know, to the the highest extreme essentially, that we always want to establish as much autonomy for the individual as is reasonably possible.
There will always be constraints on that, for example, we shouldn't give them autonomy to murder.
But even then, we would only say that the, you know, the reason that you don't want people to be allowed to murder is so because doing so actually restricts other people's autonomy.
In another sense, what we really want to do is maximize autonomy, on net, for as many people as possible.
I think that, broadly speaking, libertarianism accomplishes that by ensuring that the government has as little a role in people's lives as is possible.
The second point that I want to bring up, though, is that the government is a bad proxy for making these decisions for people.
So I think a lot of the defense that will come out of side opposition in favor of big government will be that, you know, regulations, like food safety regulations and things like that, are effective at ensuring that people are protected from predatory practices and things like that that limit their autonomy by establishing harms upon them.
The problem is that individuals are really the best actors for these things.
They know best.
And when you try to proxy their preferences through bureaucracy, essentially, there's always going to be inefficiencies intrinsic to that, that the bureaucracy just isn't good at figuring out what that individual person wants and isn't in a position to make those decisions intelligently for them.
So this ranges from everything to, you know, regulations being bad, something like, you know, a regulation on a auto producer not being able to put a certain feature in a car or having to wear seat belts, when in reality that's just something that an individual person can decide if they want to buy something with seat belts or not based on their personal preferences.
But also social policy, where the government intervenes into things like gay marriage or trans rights, simply on the basis of the the social mores of the society around them, but in reality, this isn't something that society should be deciding.
This is something that the individual should be deciding insofar as it most directly affects them.
So we would say that when these regulations come down from the upper level at the government, that's necessarily problematic.
The third and final point I want to make very briefly is just that people really, at a principled level, should be responsible for themselves.
I don't think that there's a positive obligation for an individual to support another through redistributive economics, for example.
And the reason for this is that, you know, we derive our, you know, our humanity and our and our sense of worth from the autonomy over our property or things, and because those those that property is facilitative to us being able to, you know, exert our own preferences, I if I want a car, if I want to drive around a lot because that makes me happy, I need the, you know, the money to buy a car.
And I think if we do the work to get that money and if we earn that capital, that property has to belong to us.
It's unjust then when the government takes it away.
Proud to propose.