I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should abolish three-strikes laws.
Three independent points.
The first being that these laws are fundamentally unfair.
The reason that we have protections for against cruel and unusual punishment in the united states is simple.
Inmates despite having you know committed crimes still actually have rights that they are you know people who experience suffering and that when we can mitigate that suffering we obviously should.
This you know fundamentally the reason that like we don't penalize like minor offenses with the death penalty that to some extent we want punishment to actually be proportionate to the crime.
We don't think then and that just because something is broadly classified as a felony that committing it three times justifies a life sentence.
You know something like robbery being classified as a felony for example doesn't mean that if I rob a convenience store three times I just go to jail for the rest of my life.
Like I think at some fundamental level we just have to recognize that even if this does have a deterrent effect, which I will address later as to why it most likely doesn't, there just isn't a reasonable basis upon which we can say that this is a fair punishment.
And fairness is quite important in our criminal justice system.
We want a system that actually responds properly to the nature of the crime.
A, because those inmates do have rights but b, because we want the perception that the state actually acts within the interests of its citizens.
At the end of the day, these inmates are still citizens of the united states or the state that they operate within.
As such it seems fundamentally to be a breach of the social contract then to enforce draconian rules upon them.
Our second independent point is that this is an expensive system.
So when you increase penalties to such an incredible degree, you inevitably result in prison overcrowding.
This is already a problem in california before the three-strike laws but the three-strike laws certainly have not helped that.
In fact they have made it exceptionally exceptionally easier to incarcerate individuals for prolonged amounts of time and then that generates significant expense to the state.
We think that this is a problem, not just because prison overcrowding in its own right as a right violation which it is because that results in frequently resource deprivation and a lack of personal space, but also because it puts a onerous burden on the taxpayer.
I think really the only defensible line that is often you know touted by proponents of the three-strikes laws is that it you know cleans up the streets, it makes it safer for non-offenders.
The problem is that that in and of itself is just like a benefit to non-offenders.
So if the trade-off then is absurd absurd wastes of public money and taxpayer money, I don't think that the impact calculus actually favors the three-strike laws, even when only analyzed from the perspective of non-offenders.
This is just a burden that you're putting on people for what is an unclear return.
And that unclear return part leads me into my third and final point that the deterrence factor of three-strikes laws is unclear at best.
A recent study in twenty twelve conducted at UC riverside found that there's actually very little reason to believe that the statistical decrease in crime in california had anything to do with the three-strikes laws, but actually rather with decreased alcohol consumption.
The reality is that we tend to look at the three-strikes laws is a driving factor in you know decreases in crime but the reality is that there are just significant other factors that can easily explain this and from a logical perspective most felonies are committed in the heat of the moment, which is why it's unreasonable then to assume that stricter penalties and punishments are a meaningful deterrent against committing those crimes.
Even absent all the rights violations arguments put forward then it's just unclear what the benefits of this policy are if it doesn't do anything to mitigate crime.
Proud to propose.