I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should adopt vegetarianism.
As a model we want to establish that this is a debate about whether or not it would be preferable for society to voluntarily accept this diet change.
We're not going to implement policies that would force people to become vegetarians, rather we just think that this is a preferable lifestyle choice for people to make on an individual level, but especially on a societal level in aggregation.
Our first independent point is animal rights.
So we think that animal rights stem from just sort of like a pain like a like a suffering slash like happiness perspective that if there is suffering in the world it is bad regardless of where that suffering comes from and we think that intelligence-based you know frameworks of whether or not something has rights are inherently elitist.
At that point then if it is important to respect animal rights, there is obviously a need to become vegetarian, insofar as vegetarianism one reduce eliminates the moral complicity in the suffering of animals of factory farming.
These are obviously pretty extreme forms of suffering.
Chickens that are kept in tight coops for example or cows that are given or really any livestock that isn't given sufficient space, but also the way in which they are systemically executed.
If you think life has any intrinsic value this is bad but also the ways in which the animals are killed are often brutal and gruesome.
At that point then we think that there is a moral imperative to reduce your complicity in it.
But secondly when you have a society of vegetarians you obviously eliminate the demand for this product in the first place and as a result there is a tangible change in whether or not it happens because nobody actually is buying the products that facilitate the suffering in the first place.
Our second independent point is environmental impacts.
We think first that livestock is an inefficient use of land and water that just growing produce is just a better way to use this because it you know demands less from the system.
That in turn means that there are less things contributing to droughts and other resource shortages but other that there is less also that there is less over farming of land that you you know don't deplete soil in the way that you do when you have it you know actually like just absolutely mutilated by livestock.
In that sense then you have a infrastructure for food that is more capable of sustaining large populations at affordable rates.
That's important for things like global hunger but it's also important at a local level for insuring that people's you know expenditures on foods food is lower.
Beyond this though, in terms of the local environment, we also think that there's a significant impact on global warming created by the agricultural industry.
Methane for example that's like common in just like general biological waste generated by livestock is a significant contributing factor to emission that drive global warming.
As such then we think it is important to mitigate the extent to which livestock are actually bred and born in which in turn then contributes to global warming.
Our third independent point is health of the individual.
So we think that just being a vegetarian is a healthier lifestyle.
Red meat in particular is you know there are plethora of studies demonstrating that red meat is carcinogenic.
We also think that you know this meat is often laden with fat and other you know harmful ingredients that just aren't particularly healthy.
And beyond just the individual benefits of being healthy, you know longer lifespan, happier lifestyle, you know the mental impacts of just being healthy there's also larger societal impacts for example decreased healthcare costs which actually have a ripple effect across all of society because no longer do you have a system that requires healthy individuals to subsidize comparatively less healthy individuals.
That in turn means a society that spends less on healthcare costs and more on other things that are presumably you know good uses of your money when you don't have to spend it on healthcare.
Also there's just less suffering now because less people are unhealthy and have to get healthcare in the first place for things like heart conditions.
Proud to propose.