I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that schools should teach only abstinence-only sex education.
Three independent points.
First is that this is the only effective method of birth control.
When you're talking about really any method of birth control you know the pill, when your're talking about IUD's barrier methods like condoms there's a fail rate intrinsic to all of these.
Part of that is improper usage because you know children are just bad at using things because they're children but also because the intrinsically to the the nature of the product itself it just fails sometimes.
There are hormonal reasons when you're talking about hormonal birth control and then also with barrier methods you know when you're mass producing something in a factory there are just certain things that are faulty you know condoms break things like that.
So at that point then it becomes important to educate children properly, to tell them this is the only way you will be able to ensure that you're not going to you know get pregnant or get an STD is to have sex in a manner or just did not have sex rather because that's all you can really do to have one hundred percent certainty.
Our second independent point is that children really just shouldn't be having sex yet.
I think it's important to recognize that at this age children are poorly informed at best and I don't think sexual education is really going to mitigate that.
I'll get more into the flaws of the the process itself in a bit but it's important that at such a young age you're not going to have you know meaningful consent because meaningful consent is predicated on the capacity of the participating parties to have some sort of like reasonable, well rounded understanding of what they're getting into.
And specifically with sex,which can have incredible consequences on children for a long time when you're talking about you know pregnancy or STD's, this is something that they're just not ready for yet at this age.
So it's not reasonable then for schools to teach them you know here are the tools to go out and do this thing that you shouldn't be doing no matter what.
The third independent point that I'd like to put forward is that just broadly speaking even the the concept of sex education that is you know teaching children safe-sex practices is inappropriate for teachers to discuss.
I think generally speaking this is something that you know maybe parents can make an individual decision on whether or not they want their children to learn about these things but this isn't something that should go on in a public school because there are legitimate reasons for parents to not want their children to you know be exposed to this discussion at such a young age.
Different children develop at different rates, different parents have different parenting styles.
So there's perfectly legitimate reasons to say that this just isn't something that an individual parent wants their children to be exposed to.
At that point, it's inappropriate for a public school system to broadly have this conversation with every single student that's int it because that does essentially endorse the position that this is something that we should universally expose children to.
At the point where there's reasonable deviation from that standard and where this is particularly sensitive information that parents would have a legitimate reason for fully blocking children from even being exposed to, it's reasonable to say that we should only teach abstinence and that any other additional information can simply be provided by parents who would like to have that conversation with their children.
Proud to propose.