I'm proud to stand in proposition of today's motion that we should ban that we should legalize same sex marriage.
I think the model for this is pretty intuitive, right?
Just like a government should just recognize same sex unions and that you just change the definition of marriage from a man and a woman to just to individuals who consent into the marriage.
Three independent points under this: first, that autonomy is something we should respect including for gay people, secondly that bans on gay marriage increase instances of homophobia, and thirdly that there ought be a separation of church and state and in so far as the opposition to gay marriage is largely religiously based, we should recognize that like this is a poor reason to oppose gay marriage.
So, first on autonomy.
I think it's worth recognizing that autonomy is a good thing.
It is the most fundamental right that we have.
The reason why we care about life is that we can do things and not like condemned into slavery, right?
The reason that we care about our health is because that enables us to actually have decisions like the ability to do the things that we want to do.
Autonomy to the maximum extent is always going to be good in a vacuum.
When the government is justified in infringing on autonomy?
It's because that autonomy comes into conflict with someone else's autonomy.
So like murder for example is banned because we recognize that when one person kills another person, that limits the person who is killed's autonomy to a very large extent.
So, we look at these two things that we say: " oh okay well you know, your right to kill someone is a lot less important than your like right to just be alive. "
So we restrict the thing that restricts the other person's autonomy.
So, there has to be an externality to an action.
A way in which somebody else suffers or has their autonomy limited as a result of your actions in order to for a ban to be justified.
The problem is that gay marriage doesn't have externalities.
People aren't affected by this, right?
Like if I engage in a union with another man, someone standing down the street or someone else in society isn't affected by that union in a meaningful way.
And even if they are like peeved by it, or they find themselves made slightly uncomfortable, we think that is a much less significant harm tan the harms that will be enacted upon myself and my partner by not being able to engage in a lawful union.
That leads me into my second independent point that instances of homophobia and harms upon gay individuals are magnified by a ban.
This is true for three reasons: so, broadly that it normalizes homophobia.
That it normalizes the idea that being gay is like the other and is not acceptable within mainstream society.
So three harms to that: first it increases instances of assault and discrimination because it normalizes the idea that gay people or the other and that you can treat them like the other.
That you can engage in housing discrimination or that you can assault on the street, things like that.
So when you take down the veil, when you say: " no, it is okay for these people to enter into legal union " you take down the legal basis or at least the societally justified basis for why it is okay to discriminate against gay people.
Second is it creates identity crisis of most especially young gay people that they think that this thing that they experience, that is completely natural, completely acceptable and doesn't affect other people's lives in another way, isn't okay because society has told them it's not ok, because there are these legal signals that their identity is wrong.
So recognize then, that that is a harm.
There is massive psychological trauma associated with that.
That is why like suicide amongst gay teens is so massively massively high.
Thirdly, when you push people onto the fringe of society, there are harms intrinsic to that.
So like, for example, how like a lot of gay people used to have to be prostitutes.
Like in the, you know, the eighties and even today to a large extent, because they are put to the fringes of society and are told: " you are not good enough to be within like a normal context of society and act as a normal member of our society ".
So, the third independent point I'd like to advance is the separation of church and state and why that's an intrinsically good thing.
Like recognize that the opposition to gay marriages largely religiously based, that there's like some textual arguments about this from like christianity particularly, but it's important to note that the state shouldn't be involved with like shouldn't make policy decisions on a religious basis.
That it shouldn't favor particular religions or even religiosity in general when compared to secularism because that necessarily favors one group in society over another.
It's for this reason, these reasons rather, that it's important to recognize that the opposition to this policy is fairly ridiculous.
Proud to propose.