I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion, that we should adopt libertarianism.
I think generally speaking, the way the gov approached this was to say: here is a high level reason why tyranny of the majority is bad.
I don't think though, that that justifies abolition of a lot of important public resources, that are important to minimizing suffering in the world.
Given this, I think that you can basically say: okay, here's some really bad things, that happened in the status quo, but generally speaking, democracy should solve for that.
Generally speaking, the government does more good than harm, and what I want to talk to you about is the ways in which the government reduces suffering, by having the sort of infrastructure that gov would get rid of.
First, we would say that redistributive taxation, and redistributive policies in general, are good.
Secondly, we would say that regulations are good, and third, we would say that public resources, that are accessible to all, are good.
First on redistributive policies.
We think, in the world, there are haves and have-nots.
This is true, because it's probably, honestly, exacerbated on their side of the house, but there are people who are poor, there are people who are not poor, and when you are born to someone who is poor, you are also poor.
This is the lottery of birth.
It's not that people who are poor are intrinsically worth less, but they suffer more, because of a lack of resources.
We think then, that it is justified for the government to engage in policies, that take from the rich, the haves, and give to the poor, the have-nots.
This is for, really, two reasons.
The first is that equity decreases that suffering.
Suffering doesn't exist on a linear scale, that is, if you pump a bunch of money into a rich person's pocket, they don't suddenly do that much better.
That's because they'll generally spend it on things that aren't really important to quality of life, in the way that things like healthcare, or other basic things, are.
They'll spend it on things, like a nice car a nice house.
But secondly, we think that diminishing marginal returns, an important concept of economics, also apply to income.
So, when I have lots of disposable money, it's not worth as much to me, because the diminishing marginal returns, on the individual dollars that I have, are less and less, the more I have.
We think equalizing the playing field means the most utility, because people get the most bang for their buck, they value it the most.
Our second independent point is that regulations are good, because it protects the weak from the powerful.
On side government, you get rid of the regulations that prevent really bad things, like pollution, and price gouging, things like that, things where a third party is harmed, but the person engaging in the bad action doesn't have an incentive to just not do it on their own act.
This makes for an inherently worse world.
You create things that increase net suffering, because the individual people engaging in these problematic actions don't have a force pushing against them, to say: don't do this thing, that makes the world significantly worse.
Our third independent point is that public resources are good, that there are things that we should all have equal access to, because they're facilitative to basic quality of life.
I think a good example of this is roads, or sidewalks, things that are important for us getting from point a to point b.
But, if the government relinquishes control of these types of things, it they privatize roads, and things like that, just like a lot of really really like very libertarian people would like to see, then you have a lot of harms for the people that need that, to get from point a to point b.
I think you wind up putting a lot of money into the pockets of people that already have money, and siphoning it off of the people that need these public resources, in order to do things like get to their work, or get to a hospital, or all these other things.
When you privatize out these services, you make life very very difficult for people, that don't have the means to deal with the private sector.
I think that's a significant problem, and I think that it leads to a lot of suffering.
Look, I understand the sort of philosophical justifications that are given by government.
I don't think though, that they reconcile with the intense suffering that is created, by the realization of these high level philosophical ideas.
Proud to oppose.