I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban cosmetic surgery.
So first the model.
We wouldn't ban things that are medically necessary or like reconstructive surgery.
So for example, if you were to get into a car crash, we're not and half of your faces is sheared off, we're not going to say that you can't get reconstructive surgery to fix that issue.
Likewise, if you need skin grafts to deal with some sort of life threatening injury, again, we are not going to say that you are not allowed to get that.
When we say cosmetic surgery we mean strictly for non medical purposes.
That is someone is like I think my nose is too big I want it to be smaller.
Things like that.
The implementation method for the government is maybe not totally clear here, but I think generally we're willing to just let the government have a bit of a sniff test on what does and does not constitute cosmetic.
So two independent points under this then: first, is that societal beauty standards are generally enforced through cosmetic surgery, and we deem these standards to be problematic.
And the second is that the expenditures that are made in the cosmetic surgery industry are wasteful spending and damage the economy as a result of it.
On the first point, that societal beauty standards are a problem.
So I think generally speaking it is an uncontroversial point to say that it is bad when there is like this socially defined idea of what does and does not constitute beauty.
There's a good episode of the twilight zone that talks about this.
How basically all of these things are inherently arbitrary.
That our notion of what constitutes being attractive, is in and of itself ridiculous and not actually based on any sort of objectivity.
I think a good example of this is actually just the fact that these standards were totally different a couple of decades ago.
The problem then is that cosmetic surgery enforces these things.
So on the arbitrariness that alone is a reason why this is bad.
But additionally we would say that these are things that are enforced through sexist structures, that generally speaking it is men decide what they find to be attractive and then women modeling themselves in that image.
So we think that the existence of cosmetic surgery is a multi-billion dollar industry designed to enforce patriarchal structures.
That if you were to ban it, it would be tougher to enforce the societal beauty standards and it would be more difficult for men to have this world where they simply model women to their liking.
On the second point, that the industry itself represents large amounts of wasted money.
I think it's pretty fair to say that this is a useless expenditure.
That generally speaking the things that we get out of spending this money are very like short term gains that even the best surgeons in the world can generally not do much that would combat like the ravages of age and in the long term these things probably aren't going to hold too much water.
So the alternatives though, to this sort of like luxury spending, are things that generate growth to a much larger extent than this does, right?
Like if I decide I want like a nose job and I'm gonna spend a couple like a million dollars on that or whatever, all that money just goes into the pocket of like this one doctor.
If I decide I want to spend a billion dollars on some other absurd thing, like a handbag or whatever, or like a really nice handbag I guess, at least that money is in some capacity going to like workers that were in the factory where this thing was made.
Like multiple people involved in this industry.
There is some amount of wealth being spread around through that industry that doesn't happen with plastic surgery.
Because you're spending so much money on a thing that only benefits people who are already very wealthy.
We prefer then the world where you ban this and then that luxury spending goes to things that at least have some sort of multiplier effect.
Proud to oppose.