I am proud to oppose the motion that we should ban bullfighting.
Our first independent point regards human enjoyment.
So, the fact that this is something that's, you know, so heavily prevalent in spanish culture and so many people go to it probably signals that a lot of people, you know, get a kick out of this, that they go to bullfighting events, and this is something they do, you know, with their family.
This is just like, whatever, casual sunday enjoyment.
That then, you know, means that there is obviously like a tangible benefit to having this practice in place, that, you know, people see this and much in the same way they might see a movie or go to a show, this is something that they enjoy watching.
Given that then, there is certainly a human element of enjoyment to this and at the point where you're weighing that against the animal's rights, I think it's important to establish that animals probably don't have rights.
Specifically gov sets up like this pain-pleasure metric, but I think the problem is that rights don't come from pain and pleasure, rather they come from sort of a a position of higher order intelligence and specifically the capacity to become, you know, self-aware and understand one's own preferences in a much more detailed fashion.
At that point then, because humans do operate at higher order thinking levels, it makes sense to prioritize the wishes of humans, even if the the level of like suffering versus pleasure is, you know, disjunct.
Our second independent point regards culture.
So I think much like the the raw enjoyment stemmed from this, this is like another benefit to humans that, particularly within spain, this is something that is deeply and historically ingrained into spanish culture, and something that people fundamentally regard as a part of their identity.
I think this is particularly what makes it a distinct benefit is that this is something that people specifically identify with and see as fundamentally important to their lives.
I think at the point where someone's identity is tied up in a practice, it takes on a much more significant position, because not only do they just get like enjoyment out of seeing this, but if it were to be banned people would be upset at like an existential level.
I think identity is something that is fundamentally important to human beings insofar as it shapes our perception of who we are as individuals, and insofar as it is that sort of like higher order preference, that it is something that people see as extremely important, we should afford extreme weight to it.
I think even if like you or I don't particularly sympathize with bullfighting on that level, understandings of significance and importance and relative benefits are often subjective and as such, if the individual people on the ground say this is something that's really, really massively important to them, we should respect those wishes and respect those preferences.
Our third and final independent point is that making bullfighting illegal, because it is so heavily demanded, will simply result in underground bullfighting.
An analogous example in much of central america, and even in spain itself, is cockfighting, where instead of having the sort of like open available and regulated cockfights, bullfighting would simply become something like what cockfighting is today, where it is wildly unregulated and as such, the abuses internalized by animals are much more significant and much more extreme.
Given that then, we think there is significant harm intrinsic to making this sort of practice illegal and making it harder to conduct this in an open in an open and public fashion where, you know, government officials can step in and say these practices are humane, these practices are not humane.
Proud to oppose.