I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should make sex education mandatory.
Our first independent point is that this will likely lead to worse sex education.
So we want to consider for a moment the landscape of the schools that have sex education.
Largely these are schools in fairly liberal areas that are more you know tolerant of these types of things like teenage sexuality or they're in states that even that are more liberal so even in like say a conservative area like upstate new york that might be reluctant to have sex education there's like a liberal state government that is going to mandate that sex education.
I think then the problem is that when you're talking about increasing the number of locations that have mandatory sex education you're necessarily talking about the types of places that reject it wholesale in the status quo.
So really conservative rural areas like say texas maybe or in alabama like a lot of the deep south really is what you're looking at in this kind of cross section.
The problem then with mandating sex education without putting specific requirements on what constitutes sex education is two fold.
First you have a system of that is likely to result in either a bad practices being taught so like for example they just force some hapless gym teacher in there that you know it's such as like this guy that doesn't understand how the pill works and so they give actively bad advice that actually increases problematic sex you know like activities and doesn't actually educate people properly.
Or secondly they have larger structures that are you know structurally harmful like abstinence only sex education which statistically increases teen pregnancy and STD rates.
So at the point where you have these this counter factual this is the type of system that's going to be set up in these regions that don't already have sex education I think the problem the question then becomes is this bad sex education worse than no sex education.
I think the answer is yes for two reasons.
First in the status quo even in a hyper conservative area there are children that are still going to get access to good sex education without it being present in the schools because they grow up in families that are more tolerant of these issues and as such they'll learn about these things in the household.
But having sex education that pushes bad badly informed norms directly counters what they're learning in the household then and as such the only children that are likely to get proper education on these issues are now having their education distorted.
But secondly we think there's an issue because a lot of the practices themselves are necessarily harmful that abstinence only sex education for example creates disillusionment on the student body.
This is by dare for example the like notorious over the top like drug awareness program actually increase drug usage rates because it creates disillusionment with authority structures in the school.
Even if government tries to tell you then that like the state mandating the system can just create like a good system the problem is that in the status quo the states that don't have mandatory sex education are the same states that are likely to actually mandate these problematic forms of sex education.
Texas for example if forced to mandate sex ed for all of its high schools would probably say that it has to be abstinence only this then again increases the proliferation of harmful norms.
Our second in a point to pending point briefly is parental rights.
We think that parents are the best proxy for young children on the basis of that the children themselves aren't capable of performing informed consent when they're at such a young age and as such the parent has the best interests of the child in mind because the child can't make these decisions for themselves.
At that point then if there are parents that don't want their kids to receive sex education we believe that they and not the state have the better information on what is and isn't right for their child.
Proud to oppose.