I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that we should adopt atheism.
Two independent points: the first is that a reasonable alternative to like wholehearted belief exists, and that's agnosticism.
Reasonably speaking, this is what we should adopt instead.
So, gov talks you pretty extensively about how if there is no affirmative proof for something, we should actively disbelieve in it.
That is, we should reject it.
I think this is a problem though, because generally speaking, when we say there is sort of insufficient data or insufficient evidence on something, we don't just say, " well, the case is settled.
It doesn't exist. "
I think what we have in the status quo is no proof one way or another about whether or not god exists, or any deity, for that matter.
So, I think this is a problem, because there is a possibility of a deity, right?
Things like the inexplicable nature of the big bang open up a lot of questions as to what causes these things.
Regardless of scientific advances, there are always openings in our understanding of the known universe and of time and of all these large questions that are fundamentally unanswerable from our perspective that deities could always have a role in it.
So I think it is not particularly prudent then to outright reject even the possibility of some sort of deity.
Recognize also that science is often reversed.
We are living in a period of unprecedented scientific discovery, but that begs the question then of the fact that we always seem to reject, or at least always assume, that that large amount of discovery is inherently warranted.
Scientific discoveries, though, are often discredited hundreds of years after they're made.
And in recent memory, we have made most of the major scientific discoveries of the modern age.
This is a problem because these things can be reversed.
The things that gov considers like inherent proof that we just cannot assume a deity exists might be reversed in the long term, and I think that that in and of itself is a reason to be agnostic.
Our second independent point is that religion, as an institution, is something that just makes the world a better place.
So even if you put aside all of these things about like whether or not is it rational, we think that just being an atheist makes the world a little worse.
A couple reasons for this: the first is that the afterlife is something that relieves suffering for those who are currently experiencing the most suffering in the moral world.
So, people who are, for example, starving in the streets of like bolivia, which is like largely like christian country, I believe, like can it least to some extent be relieved by the notion that one day they are going to this afterlife, to this heaven, because they were pious individuals, because they did nothing wrong, and as a result of that, they will get to experience eternal happiness.
It doesn't matter if this is true, because it gives them peace at mind while they have their suffering in this world.
That's important.
Because the reality is that even if suffering is non-unique, even if they're going to starve on either side of the house, the the reassurance in their mind, that happiness that is generated by the thought that they will experience an afterlife, has tangible value.
Being happy is a good thing.
So I think we will defend belief systems that allow people to be happy but secondly, we would say that hell, specifically, inspires levels of charity in people.
People that genuinely believe that if they do bad things, they will be punished are less likely to do the bad thing.
Obviously, there are people for whom this incentive structure doesn't particularly affect them.
Obviously, those people exist on the margins.
We would say that if there is anyone who is disincentivized from wrongdoing because they fear punishment, that's a good thing.
Proud to oppose.