I'm proud to stand in opposition to the motion that intellectual property rights should be abolished.
I have three independent points.
First, that it reduces the incentive to create.
Second, that principally we deserve the products of our own labor and thirdly, that international competition will likely punish countries that do this to an extreme extent.
So on the first argument that it reduces the incentive to create, I think this is hinted at in gov's arguments where they are like well you know some people say this.
I think people say that for a pretty good reason right?
Like we're recognize it like if you are a person producing medicine, like if you are a pharmaceutical company, you just don't have an incentive to create that medicine because you're investing billions of dollars into it and then as soon as you like actually put this thing on the market someone's going to release a knock off of it, like steal up like half of your market share possibly more and you're the one that has to burden the entire cost of production in the first place.
So you literally don't make enough money to make up for the initial expenditures that allowed you to engage in the production of this medicine.
That's really important because when they talk about patent trolls or price gouging or anything like that, that is a like the terminal harm of that.
One hundred percent of the time is just not accessing the medicine but that doesn't happen always right?
There are instances in where we avoid these realities where the products are able to reach consumers in a reasonable way.
The comparative then, where the products just don't get produced in the first place, that means that by definition you are always going to have less access to these life saving drugs.
You are always going to have less access to any product that is protected by intellectual property rights that is systemically important to the existence of to our society.
Given that I think the worst case scenario is always realized on their side of the house because the actual fundamental incentives of a corporation to make money are violated by the passage of this motion and as a result you just lose your infrastructure necessary to create these things.
My second independent argument is that principally people should just have intellectual property rights because they created these things.
On government they try to tell you oh well you know things like music for example are like the composite of like long long kinds of history in like work that came before it.
I think there's a couple problems with this.
First is that the way we combine things is in itself unique right?
Like I pick up a rock and I pick up some water and I make some cool thing out of the combination of those two things, that is a meaningfully new thing and I put in labor and I used my ingenuity to create that new thing.
So it is worth recognizing that this isn't the property of the people that might have created the rock or the water or whatever, this is my thing because I made this unique item and I actually put in meaningful input that changed the landscape.
So combination is something that is deserving of a of an ownership claim but also recognize that the most blatant examples of this, like say sampling for example in music, do require you to actually pay money to the person that initially created the things.
Like a lot of the time the way we combine things requires payments to those who came before us.
So I think the status quo is perfectly capable of solving for the harms that are described by side government right?
But on an even more fundamental level, I just deserve my own work.
I put a thing into it like I actually utilized my own labor and time and resources and money or whatever and that means that I actually am entitled to the existence of this to the ownership over this thing that I created.
That this is mine.
At the most fundamental level our autonomy is contingent on the idea that we actually maintain ownership over our own things, over our own creations, because that is what allows us to act reasonably within this world.
How we our ownership of a property is literally how we maintain agency because we are able to protect ourselves with our property.
The last argument I'd like to advance then is international competition.
I think this is unclear by the model whether or not international competition is a thing because like it's unclear if just one country is doing this but recognize that if just one country is doing this this is a terrible idea because your products are no longer protected but everybody else's is.
So you're at a massive market disincentive.
I think this just destroy your economy in so far as you have no capacity to compete in the international market and as a result all this ingenuity all the things that matter so deeply to side government just go out the window once you don't have this protection in your own labor force in your own in your own production capacity.
Proud to oppose.