I'm proud to oppose the motion that we should disband nato.
Our first independent point is that it provides a check against russia.
So specifically we think that this is important because the like the way that russia acts in the you know modern geo-political system is intensely aggressive.
Even if the USSR has collapsed and as you know ceased to exist, there is still a lot of belligerence coming from that part of the world that is necessary to beat back.
I think you know the recent annexation of crimea is certainly a key example of this but even just sort of like broader aggression towards like other neighbors, like meddling in georgia's elections for example, has demonstrated that russia is you know a particularly problematic actor.
This then in turn means that there is an active need to provide a check against that russian aggression.
That if you assume that this is like a actually dangerous actor on an international scale and that they are complicit in significant human rights abuses, sovereignty infringements within the region, there's an active need to create a unified front against it.
Gov takes issue with the fact that nato is probably overkill, we specifically think that nato being overkill is its greatest attribute.
That is that the best way to ensure that russia doesn't act even more aggressively is to actively deter it from acting aggressively.
So if you essentially just tell them, look we've got the fire power and the unified front to just beat you into the ground if you try anything really egregious, we think that that then means that russia is unlikely to try any extremely significant human rights abuses or sovereignty infringements or anything like that.
Our second independent point is that nato forces unity in military action amongst western nations.
So we think that this is really important because the alternative to nato is a world in which you kind of have like a bunch of loose cannons on the international system, particularly the US which is known for its aggression and its interventionist foreign policy, is like really important to keep in check.
Nato ensures that there's a voting bloc of countries that have to come together and make decisions.
Sort of like the two heads are better than one type philosophy.
So we think then that when there are lots of individual countries making these decisions together, it's more likely that these are going to be cool, level headed, well thought out discussions rather than just tainted by some countries like personal nationalist bias or whatever.
But beyond this, we think that there's importance to the unity in action because it ensures that there's consistency across country lines.
We think one of the worst ways to deal with an international crisis is an inconsistent response, that is different countries respond differently.
Because then we think that aggressors can essentially play these countries off of one another.
Think of, for example, the inconsistent responses to I don't know hitler's early aggression in world war two.
This is a prime example of when the geopolitical response was poor and this enabled the aggressor to get away away with a lot of like territory grabbing and other aggressive moves that normally should not have occurred.
As such then, we think that a unified front ensures that there will be a consistent, clear response that will mitigate the likelihood of something like this happening.
Our third point is that, contrary to the assertions of side government, nato is a fairly equitable organization.
I think it's interesting that like gov tells you, oh this system's really unfair to the united states because no one else is paying enough, then also it's really unfair to everyone else because the united states is like the only place that actually benefits from this system.
Like obviously one of these just justifies the other.
Then if only the united states benefits from this then it's just like totally reasonable for the united states to pay a lot more money into the system than the other states.
At that point then I think this system is pretty good at tracking the comparative value that these countries get out of the actual organization.
Proud to oppose.