I'm proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should lower the age of consent.
With regards to the model I think generally speaking, across countries there are variations in what the exact age of consent is.
For the sake of this debate, I will assume that the age of consent is generally around eighteen but there is obviously some degree of fluctuation.
That said, that fluctuation probably doesn't matter terribly much, because the fluctuation is largely a product of social conventions that will determine how a child is treated in their early age.
And generally speaking, those distinct ages should reflect the way the society treats children such that they will generally be ready by that age.
That said, I think three two independent points that demonstrate why there are structural reasons that ages of consent are set too high.
So the first independent point is that the structural reasons prevent consensual relationships.
So generally speaking, the capacity to engage in a consensual relationship exists at a fairly early age.
This is for a couple reasons, I think one is that modern media has evolved in such a way that has allowed children to or not children but has allowed like younger individuals to understand the complexities of sexual interaction at a comparatively earlier age than it was previously the case.
And I think then the structural problem becomes that age of consent laws have not adapted to this changing culture.
That despite the fact that people are generally under generally have an understanding of what sexual interaction constitutes and what the risks are at a much earlier age than they used to.
We still have not changed those age laws and as a result they are higher than they ought be.
But secondly I think it's important to recognize the harms that are that originate from when these laws are when these aged limits are too high.
So sexual expression is something that is key to an individual's identity.
I think it is almost intuitively true that it's something people care a lot about but it's also something that shapes a lot of our decision making.
That people care deeply enough about this that they are willing to make really significant sacrifices for sexual interaction.
And I think that's a significant point, because generally whether or not someone is valuing an individual end as something that they care very deeply about, that's pretty much our best proxy for whether or not it's key to their identity.
That based on their capacity to engage in sexual relationships, they shape perceptions of their self worth, they shape their priorities of what they're going to do with their life.
This is something that's really significant to an individual and I think depriving them of the capacity to capitalize upon that aspect of their identity is something that generates significant harm.
But secondly I just want to point out that these laws are often ineffective at doing what they are designed to do.
I think the reason that we have age of consent laws in the first place is that we recognize that at a very young age people do not understand the ramifications of of sex.
But I think I've demonstrated why generally speaking we have ages that are too high in terms of the bright line of when we should allow them to consent into this.
I think the other reason though why these laws exist is that there are power asymmetries intrinsic between relationships between extremely young individuals and comparatively older individuals.
I think the problem though is that having an age of consent doesn't do a particularly good job of preventing these relationships that have distinct power dynamics.
And the reason for this is something that's actually quite similar to why pedophilia existed within the catholic church.
That when there is that power dynamic, a cover up, getting the victim to not really speak up, is quite easy.
So I think that having that age of consent doesn't actually do very much to ensure that the person will be punished and doesn't do very much to disincentive those problematic relationships.
As a result, the laws don't do what they're meant to do.
Proud to propose.