We're proud to stand in proposition of the motion that we should ban bullfighting.
We'll model this as being enforced pretty comparably to other forms of animal fighting like dog fighting or cock fighting.
So that is to say that there are prison sentences or at least hefty fines with both people who organize these types of events as well as the individual trainers who own the animals that are then subjected to this type of violence.
Two independent points.
Our first being just sort of broadly animal rights and how bullfighting violates them.
First establishing why animal rights exist and matter.
Rights, generally speaking, are something that we think of as just something that's inalienable, something that's really fundamental to our nature and can't be infringed upon like say, our right to life something that we hold in very high regard and are generally going to prioritize above you know more simple like utilitarian impacts.
Oftentimes these are construed as being you know unique to humans but we think that the reason why they ought be extended to animals is that you know fundamentally there just isn't a consistent principle that justifies why these are unique to humans.
There's really two lenses through which this is generally seen.
The one justifying humans only is sort of like an intelligence based standard.
That is that because humans are very self aware and they're sentient and they're more intelligent than animals, they uniquely get rights.
I think the problem is that there's not a well established bright line on this that the determines how intelligent you have to be for rights.
Certainly one problem with this is that we generally think of humans with like intellectual disabilities or just generally unintelligent people still having rights.
So I don't think it's a very principally consistent standard then to apply to.
I think the more consistent standard is the other one which is just if something experiences pain and pleasure it deserves rights because suffering is bad.
I don't think there's any benefit to animal suffering, obviously not in a vacuum, and as such it's something that we should consider as mattering.
That when animals experience pain and we can demonstrably see that they are experiencing pain, then we should you know not cause that pain.
This is reflected in our norms actually.
Things like animal abuse are illegal but like inconsistently we believe that killing them is fine.
I think particularly then, killing them through ways that are very inhumane and cause lots of lots of harm and pain and suffering onto the animal that are even torturous, should be considered especially reprehensible.
Bullfighting particularly represents this.
Bullfighting involves a long, slow, and violent process by which the animal is killed.
It's also subjected to like large amounts of violence just in the process of the bullfight and in the lead up to the bullfight.
They're often held in inhumane conditions.
As such, we think the bullfighting represents a lot of harm that is inflicted upon animals simply for human enjoyment and that this is principally unjust and should be banned, but secondly, we think that a ban is justified even from a purely human-centric perspective because it's a process that hurts humans too.
Bullfighting is exceptionally dangerous.
Bulls are strong, they are fast, and they are extremely extremely violent creatures.
At that point then, humans are subjecting themselves to a large amount of risk simply for the purpose of entertainment.
In other forms of entertainment we've instituted bans on the basis of large amounts of risk and I don't think that we should you know stop the buck simply because it's a cultural thing.
Generally it's part of our culture is a weak argument simply on the basis that we have banned other things intrinsic to our culture you know such as like slavery or other types of just inherently bad things on the basis that they cause suffering.
Given that, I don't think that we should perpetuate something that puts humans at a significant amount of risk of suffering.
Prop to propose.