I'm proud to stand in opposition of today's motion, that we should legalize cannabis for recreational purposes.
So, I think two independent arguments, sorry.
First is that there are medical harms intrinsic to usage of recreational marijuana, and that there's a significant government interest in combating the proliferation of those medical arms, and secondly, that it distorts the medical industry from a financial perspective, that means that, people who need this medically, that is the people who for which you usage is most legitimate, are the ones who disproportionately suffer under this policy.
So on the first argument, that there are medical harms intrinsic to recreational use.
I think this there's a couple of ways this plays out.
So, cognitive harms, for example, like there are tons of studies out there, that demonstrate that there's very damage in terms of long term memory, short term memory, brain cell generation, all sorts of issues, that are intrinsic to to repeated use.
But secondly, that these harms are disproportionately internalized by children, that when you have a developing brain, this is something that is, you know, more likely to happen.
So, and also beyond this, there is like very little access to information regarding these harms, but I'll get into that in a moment.
So, why is the government justified, then, in restricting on this basis?
Five reasons.
First, you just decrease net suffering, right?
Like, if there is a medical harm, that is intrinsic to the usage of the item, that less people suffer when less people use it.
I think it is intuitively true, that the recreational market means more usage happens, because illegality is actually a barrier to purchasing, like when someone makes that calculus in deciding, am I going to smoke this or not, am I going to go out and buy this or not, generally speaking, it it's more likely that person will decide no, if there is a risk of like arrest, or a fine, or something, if they do so.
Secondly, consent is not always meaningful into doing this.
This is because there is like less imperfect access to information regarding the harms of the item.
Even under a legal structure, I think tobacco is a good example of this, where there is usually this like meaningful distortion of facts by the industry producing the good.
Third is that there are sometimes externalities to this usage, that are not just medical.
So I think a good example of this is stoned driving, where people who didn't consent into the consumption of the item, people that are just innocent bystanders, have to internalize the harms that are intrinsic to the consumption of the item.
Forth is public health costs.
So, insurance is a good example of something that happens, right?
When this is a legal item, insurance companies, under you know, things like pre existing condition laws, and like right to choose laws, and things like that, cannot deny people coverage on the basis that they smoke pot.
That's important, because it means that premiums go up, because there are more things that insurance companies have to solve for, when you have to internalize the harms that are created on the public health network, by the people who are smoking pot, and disproportionately likely to have medical complications.
Society at large has to bear those burdens, because of the increased premiums, you have to get the money from somewhere.
And fifth, is that it is a gateway drug.
I think gov tries to preempt this, by being like: the black market has more gateway opportunities, because of the nature of the transaction.
I think you can just weigh this out with the scope of consumption, that more people smoke on their side of the house, as a result, you get more gateway activity on their side of the house.
My second independent argument is that it distorts the medical industry, because there's now a financial incentive to pump money into researching recreational strains of marijuana, because the payoff is bigger.
I think is intuitively true, like there are generally going to be people that like, generally, the market of people that would consume on a recreational basis is larger than the medical industry, so there's a financial incentive to prioritize the recreational industry.
That's a problem, because that research is zero sum.
So, it's always going to come at the expense of the people that need it for medical purposes, and we should always prioritize the people that need access to this substance the most, at the highest rate.
Proud to oppose.