We should abolish the monarchy.
Before we begin, we need to clarify something because there are some different models and types of monarchies in the world, starting from models where the monarch is the de facto ruler with absolute authority on political decisions made, like in saudi arabia or qatar, to models where the monarch is a more diplomatic and symbolic figure with hardly any authority when it comes to policy, like in great britain.
For the purposes of this debate, we will argue that all these models need to give way in favor of a democratic republic.
Of course, the more authorities that the monarch has, the bigger our problem because becomes.
We'll have two points.
First, I'll explain the rationale of why we had monarchies to begin with and why this rationale is no longer relevant today.
And secondly, I'll discuss the inherent harms in a monarchy under all models.
So first point: monarchs all used to hold absolute authorities, and the legitimacy for their rule is that they were somehow able to persuade the people that they had some divine right to rule.
The royal family were nearly godlike, and that's why the title passes on in a hereditary fashion.
Now, the rationale that justifies it was that we needed some one ruler above everyone else to dictate the rules so that we can have order and avoid anarchy.
If there is no one that we can all agree that has the legitimate authority to set rules and enforce them, then everyone do as they please, which is bad for everyone.
Therefore, it's best to sacrifice some of our liberties to this monarch and get a functioning society.
But as time went by and people started becoming more aware of their own rights and demanding things from their kings, the authorities of the monarchs dwindled down until we reach the current model of a democratic republic.
And now, we obviously have plenty of examples to countries without a monarch that don't have anarchy in the streets.
All that is needed is a functioning government, a parliament that sets laws and courts who enforce them.
Thus, the old logic and rational for monarchs is no longer valid today.
The new rationale given sometimes, especially in britain, is that this institution is ingrained in their tradition and culture of this country.
And, you know, all of this may be true, but nostalgia and romanticism can only get you so far.
This is exactly what museums are for.
We're not saying that they should just forget all about their history, but it's just like vikings are a very important part of the nordic countries' history and it it doesn't mean that they should go and ravage the seas today.
We should put that behind us if no stronger rationale exists.
A monarchy comes at very high costs, and we don't think that it's worth it just for nostalgia's sake.
This brings me to my second point.
Along the years, there have been good kings and there have been bad kings.
But the biggest problem is inherently that the people can't control what their king does, except maybe for during violent revolutions when they try and overthrow the monarch.
And this is, of course, something that we would like to prevent in the future, because many people tend to die in those.
Now, because the title passes on through heritage, the king needn't worry about his seat and can pretty much do as he pleases.
In absolute monarchies, this is still true to this very day.
On top of that, having grown up in a palace, even if the king wishes well, most times he's just not really connected and fully aware of what the average citizen in his country needs.
This is exactly what democratic republics are meant to fix.
Of course, there can also be good governments and bad governments, but the head of state always knows that if he doesn't please the people, he will be removed, and this is the biggest check and balance on the power of the government.
That's important.
But even in constitutional monarchies, where the king is not a political figure per se, like the UK, there still is a huge price to pay for this monarchy.
Firstly, money.
It costs a lot of money to maintain buckingham palace and the lavish lifestyle of the royal family.
There also security costs, of course, and costs of expeditions abroad that all come from the taxpayers' payroll, taxpayers who did not choose this monarch, not legitimate.
Moreover, there's just something wrong about having a-class citizens in the form of royal families.
This fixates the class system, and ugly relic from less enlightened times.
For all these reasons, please propose.