Two points in the speech: first, a principle justification for ASBO's and second, why these laws are necessary to protect citizens from actual harm.
Before that, a few points of refutation to the previous speaker.
So he starts by saying that the law is meant to protect freedoms and that ASBO's harm freedom.
Why?
Because in their mind there is no actual harm here, this is just behavior that bothers people.
So we don't understand on what grounds they separate here between something that bothers people and harm.
If we're talking, for instance, about a neighbor that insists on playing his music really really loud then this is harassment.
Plain and simple.
This is an actual harm for all we know.
Then they say that the law mustn't interfere with social behavior.
Antisocial behavior, in their minds, is a problem like it's a failure of society and therefore it's society's responsibility to intervene.
Well we have two answers here: first being like violent criminal offenses are often a result of failures of society as well.
So according to this logic we must also let society handle armed robbers that came from a poor background rather rather than legally intervene.
We think that this is crazy.
Secondly, we're going to explain in our positive point why we think that society simply cannot handle this issue well.
So the second point that comes in their speech is that these laws are very vague.
It's unclear to me when am I like breaking the law or not.
We would say that this is imprecise.
We would remind you that there are two stages to this process.
Firstly I get the ASBO after I demonstrated some antisocial behavior and only then if I break it I I break the law.
So it's true that there's a certain amount of vagueness as to when such an ASBO might be issued to me, but up until that point I haven't done anything illegal and therefore there's like no problem of the law being unclear here.
In the ASBO itself, things will be very clearly defined.
And so I could know exactly how I must behave in order not to break the law.
Let's move over to the positive.
So a principle justification.
So right in the end of the previous speaker's speech he says something about people needing to have a mens rea, an ill intention, in order to break the law.
But that is also not precisely the case.
We say that there are some laws that don't require a malign intent, namely negligence laws, and we think that this is very similar to this case.
We're going to justify ASBO's as something akin to negligence.
In cases of negligence you can be criminally liable for your actions because you failed to meet the standard that society, or the court for that matter, define as the standard of the reasonable person.
So in this case as well like in in our case as well we we think that there are there's a certain type of behavior that we can expect people to reasonably follow and whoever fails to do that, by the same logic, can be held liable.
Moreover we think that in many cases there is malign intent in the cases of ASBO's.
It's not hard to imagine people that are just simply jackasses and that they raise the volume up to spite their neighbors.
So there's mens rea, there's actus reus, and there's no problem of of like holding them liable.
Which brings me to my final point: these laws are necessary in order to protect citizens from harm.
Why?
Because we say that we can't just expect society to pass on manners to people successfully like the the previous speaker wants.
As long as there is no significant sanction then the bully has nothing to be afraid of.
If I'm antisocial and I don't care what people think about me which is the only sanction that society knows to to like give you, like that other people won't like you, but if I am antisocial I don't care what other people think about me so I have no incentive and nothing to stop me from bothering other people.
And therefore we need the law to give teeth to this ban and deter people from doing this.
For all these reasons please oppose.