School uniform are important because they help protect children that come from poor families and help them feel included in the school.
Before I reach this argument, allow me to respond to the points that were brought up by the prime minister.
So the first thing that was brought up is that school uniform stand in the way of the children to express their creativity and sense of individuality.
Two answers here.
A: we simply disagree.
We think that there are a million and one other ways in which you could stand out, not through the tee shirt that you're wearing and children, specifically, usually have no problem finding such ways.
You want to be creative and special, go to art class, go play the drums, go do whatever it is that you want.
Nobody's going to stop you.
Second answer: we say that even if it is true to an extent, we simply don't care too much about every kid getting to feel that he is the most special thing in the world.
We say that if we show you that by canceling school uniform, we're going to create a situation that will make it a lot harder for certain students to fit in and to feel welcome, then with all due respect to the feeling of individuality of the children, it can wait until after hour after school hours.
The second thing that we're being told is that school uniforms aren't comfortable enough.
I'm sorry but this is not a serious argument.
I mean, come on.
If this is the problem, we can easily solve it by allowing a few possible versions of the uniform, you know, short sleeve, long sleeve, etcetera, and each student can simply choose the version that's most comfortable for him.
Again, with all due respect, this is not so important.
Lastly, we hear that there is no positive impact that comes out of school uniform and that it's all just assertions.
But seeing as this was basically said as an assertion itself, without any analysis, I find it a little funny.
So, let's move on to explain the positive impact of uniform.
We say that children can be pretty cruel sometimes, especially to whoever is different from them.
There are a few ways in which you can be different.
It can be on the basis of appearance: if I am overweight, if the color of my skin is different, it can be in my religion or my sexual orientation and, obviously, it can be in socioeconomic status.
If my parents don't have enough money to send me to school in fancy clothing like the rest of the children then, in the worst case scenario, I might actually be subjected to social preclusion.
But even if not, I start to develop a sense of inferiority.
I feel uncomfortable in my own skin.
This is a feeling that accompanies me everywhere, including into the classroom, and I just simply cannot run away from.
We say that if it is possible to at least allow these children the chance of, you know, getting free from all of this, from this feeling of inferiority, at least while they're in the school where they are supposed to be able to sit in the classroom and study and to focus and concentrate without feeling unwelcome, without having to worry about their social status.
We say that if we could do something about it, then this is something that we must do, and by implementing the school uniform, we say that at least we are giving them the chance of being released from all of this.
Therefore, we call you to oppose the motion.