We should legalize ivory trade.
So on the one side of the scales in this debate, we have the possible extinction of endangered elephants in africa and on the other, we have massive financial benefits to some of the poorest countries in the world.
In this speech, we're going to argue the following: a, the latter is simply more important than the former, and b: even if not, banning ivory trade does very little to help protect the elephants, even the opposite and so we might as well, at the very least, try and make the most out of it and guarantee that the money is reaching the right place.
First argument: so we were all taught how important it is to protect endangered species, but we would actually challenge this notion and dare ask, why is it so important?
What's the intrinsic value of african elephants being able to walk around safely?
Surely, it can't be about animal rights since we generally don't mind slaughtering billions of animals each passing day, just so we can enjoy eating meat or dairy or wearing fur or leather.
What's so different about wanting to enjoy the use of ivory?
So, we think that apart from vague sentimental values, there's just not a lot to say for the importance of protecting africa's elephants.
On the other hand, however, the potential benefit that can come out of ivory trade is huge.
The main countries that stand to gain a lot from this are countries like zimbabwe or botswana and the like.
These are incredibly poor countries that can't possibly create a competitive advantage for themselves in the industry or agriculture sectors because this would require knowledge and technology that they simply don't possess.
So, the one thing that these countries are uniquely rich in is wildlife.
And so, relying on hunting is one of the only opportunities for them to generate growth.
This is being heavily hindered today by the ban on ivory.
This is a ban that other powerful countries have decided upon without considering for a moment the weak countries that are going to be most affected.
We think that the people of africa are more important than its elephants, and our obligation should rest with them first and foremost.
At the point at which we need to prioritize the lives of one over the other, we think that the choice should be easy.
But let's move on and say that you remained unconvinced and that you still believe that it's wrong to allow elephants to go extinct.
We have some bad news.
The ban on the ivory trade does very little to help on that regard.
Ivory is still a very desired commodity and the demand for it remains high.
Thus, like any other thing that's being banned, a black market is created.
All this ban does is make sure that instead of the countries themselves enjoying the benefits of ivory trade, all of the money goes into the pockets of illegal poachers.
With the current ban on the ivory trade, the countries have very little incentive to invest the efforts needed to stop these butchers because why should they care about the elephants' population if it's no longer a source of income?
Note: these poachers are even more likely to bring about the speedy extinction of the elephant population.
Why?
Because if we allow ivory trade, governments will want to make sure that the elephant population isn't eradicated entirely, because they want to continue making money off it.
So, they make sure they control the hunting.
Poachers aren't looking at the bigger picture.
Their incentive is to hunt down as many as possible right now before someone else gets to.
This is the well-known economic problem that's called the " tragedy of the commons ".
This means that it's likely that lifting the ban will lead to the elephant population being extinct way quicker and even if not, at the very least, it won't do much to help them.
And so at the very least, we think that we have to look at where is the money being made, like where is the money being made from hunting put to better use, and that is if it reaches the countries and not the poachers.
So for all these reasons, proud to propose.