We should ban trans fat usage in food.
For the sake of this debate, we're willing to acknowledge that trans fat is delicious, but the core question of this debate is whether it's legitimate to make a choice for the citizens and narrow down the amount of their options.
We believe that in the specific case of trans fat, the answer is yes.
Two arguments: one, when is it possible to intervene in individual's choice, and two, harm to society, and not only to the user.
So, first argument.
In general, we support the rule according to which the state can't take decisions for the individual just to prevent them from doing like from harming themselves.
But this rule has its exceptions.
For instance, we ban many times substances that there are addictive, like heroin or cocaine, because they are deadly, like they are a deadly combination of both a serious physical harm to the person using them and they're physically addictive.
In that particular situation, the ability to treat the user as an individual with a free choice disappears.
Once a certain substance makes you physically dependent on it, then there's not much point in discussing choice.
Another exception is, for instance, when we force people to wear seat belts, even if they are driving alone.
In this case, we can simply see that the level of intervention is very small.
It's not aggressive or intrusive, just something that needs a bit of getting used to, and that's it.
But the benefits that arise from this action are huge.
And so, even though we're principally against intervening, we're not going to be dogmatic, and we don't mind doing doing so in this particular case.
When discussing trans fat, we think both these exceptions are relevant.
Firstly, trans fat is physically addictive and extremely dangerous to one's health.
This is why, by the way, it's not enough to just try and educate the public about the risks of unhealthy eating.
Informing the public isn't good enough when it comes to addictive substances.
Secondly, there are very good and healthy and cheap alternatives, so all it would take is just to get used to eating less fatty fast food.
The level of intervention here isn't serious, but the harm that's being prevented is huge.
Bottom line: the principle of individual liberty is great, but it must have its limits.
We can't cling onto it while completely ignoring the benefits.
Second argument: harm to society.
So, even if I fail in convincing you that sometimes we must intervene just to prevent people from harming themselves, clearly you'd agreed that we can intervene to protect to prevent harm from others.
Trans fats are not only harming whoever consumes them, but they're also a huge threat to the entire society.
We've obesity on the rise and heart diseases as the main source of mortality in the western world.
More and more people are becoming too ill to work and are required to undergo treatments that form a huge burden on the entire economy.
Society has a collective interest in safekeeping its citizens' health.
So, even if it's a free choice, when a man chooses to harm his his own health, he harms his productivity as well, and the entire society is built upon reciprocating productivity.
Therefore, he's harming his entire surroundings.
Now, of course, that on an individual level, every trans fat eater is neglectable but on the aggregate level, we already reach a serious problem.
This surely gives us all the legitimacy we need to intervene.
So, for all of these reasons, please propose.