We actually agree with the previous speaker that eighteen-year-olds are perfectly able to drink responsibly, but he himself does a fantastic job of explaining how the legal age limit is not really the de facto age in which you start drinking.
We are well aware that eighteen and nineteen and twenty-year-olds drink alcohol left and right, and we're fine with that.
But the problem in lowering the drinking age, the legal drinking age, to eighteen or to sixteen is that it subsequently will lead to the lowering of the de facto age that kids start drinking to like fourteen or fifteen, and that's already something that side government would also agree that is un like preferable.
So here's what we say, basically: the legal definition of who is a minor and who is an adult will forever be random.
Whether we set it at twenty one or eighteen or sixteen, it is clear and obvious that it won't really apply equally to everyone.
Of course, there are sixteen-year-olds that are very mature and calculated and trustworthy, and there are twenty-two and twenty-three-year-olds that are very immature and reckless.
Therefore, it doesn't matter where we draw the line, it is going to be, at the same time, overinclusive and underinclusive, but we still have to draw the line somewhere.
So, we're willing to accept the position of side government that most eighteen-year-olds are responsible and mature enough in order for us to be fine with having them drink, but we but we think that they will also concede that most fourteen-year-olds are absolutely not responsible enough.
What we also must take into consideration, when we draw the line, are the effects that daniel explains so so like so nicely of how, you know, the taboo when something is forbidden makes me want it more and so on.
So, this means we need to acknowledge the fact that no matter where we draw the line, this means that like in the vicinity of that limit, people will not abide by it.
For this reason, we had a very good reason to take this extra buffer zone and to set the legal drinking age to twenty-one.
This comes out of the understanding that most eighteen and nineteen-year-olds will still be drinking and that's fine, but far less fourteen-year-olds will be will be drinking because it will seem so much remote to them.
Note that all of the harms that the previous speaker lists in regard to like reckless responses like irresponsible drinking that results from not being of the legal age will simply apply tomorrow to fourteen-year-olds, and that's much worse.
So, we see the same type of logic in other places in the law, by the way.
For example, when setting speed limits to like roads and highways, it's perfectly obvious to the government that most people will exceed the like the limit and the speed that that's allowed in a in like a few percent.
But in most cases, like the police will even turn a blind eye to mild violations.
Yet, these limitations are set in a manner that is relatively conservative, like just in order to make sure that whoever violates them still doesn't drive too fast.
We call this the anchoring effect.
This the number that we set is being used as a sort of a metaphorical anchor that people don't stray too far from.
So, we say that it's it's perfectly like reasonable what the other side are saying, that the current drinking age is a bit unfair to eighteen-year-olds but as they tell us themselves, like eighteen-year-olds don't really suffer too much out of this.
They drink anyway.
So if we lower the drinking age, we say that the damages are going to be much more significant.
So, oppose the motion.