Obviously the legal system isn't perfect and is incapable of always delivering justice purely.
It will never be able to do that.
That doesn't mean that we shouldn't try and maximize the justice in pursuit of truth, but we have to understand that there is a very dangerous tradeoff here: that the more power, the more absolute power we grant the state in pursuing truth and justice, the more chances of creating greater injustice.
This is why the system is built in such a way that limits the power of the government and the state out of the understanding that this asymmetry in powers can create a distortion and allow people in positions of power to do almost everything they wish.
This is why we don't allow evidence that were unlawfully obtained to be submitted in the court, even if they might help us reveal the truth.
This is also why we limit the ability of the state to put its citizens in double jeopardy.
And yes, this means that in some cases we will not be able to catch bad guys, but that's simply worth the risk.
We need to say, though, that there are very few cases, in reality, of guilty defendants that are able to beat the system and get fully acquitted.
Everyone can cite the names of OJ simpson or bill cosby, but it's exactly because these are such rare instances that they became so famous.
How do I know this?
Because the national conviction rate in criminal felonies is above ninety percent, well above it.
This means that it's incredibly rare, next to impossible, to avoid conviction once charges have been pressed against you.
No matter how good your lawyer is, chances are against the defendant.
Do we really think that ninety something percent of defendants are guilty people?
I doubt that.
Given this, it is really unclear to me what is this so pressing problem that side government sees in the status quo that would require such a drastic amendment to one of the core tenets of the constitution and would require granting more power to the already too powerful public prosecution.
We hear that it does more harm to allow guilty men walk around free than to judge and try innocent men twice.
We disagree.
We disagree, both because we really don't accept this assumption that if you are truly innocent, then it's likely that you'll be found so a second time because as rachel says, the system is flawed.
It's far from being perfect in pursuing truth.
So, in the second time or third time or fourth time, at some point, people break.
They no longer have the time or the money or the strength to keep on fighting for their innocence, and the state will always have much more stamina and resources to continue fighting.
So, once the state sets its aim on convicting someone, they can simply never rest until they manage to do so.
We also, though, we like regardless of whether you're innocent or not, we we still disagree with this claim.
We think that it's truly morally unjust when a criminal walks around free if he was never caught and put on trial.
But given that we have caught this man, and we have tried him and we were simply unable to convict him for whatever reason, then the system did all that it could.
It doesn't mean that it's good that he now walks around in the street but this is not also not a violation of rights, as rachel would have you believe.
Meanwhile, we say that putting people through the entire process of a criminal trial, where your name and your reputation are smeared, your career is over, your family life, your social life gets hurt badly, you were forced to spend a fortune and after winning, you would have to face all of this again, in our opinion this is a grave injustice, and this is amoral, you know what, even if you are guilty.
And then rachel says that people will start losing trust in the system and will start breaking laws when they see that the system is unable to catch and lock up the bad guys.
So the first answer here is this is the classic example of a slippery slope.
We would love to hear one example in which chaos and crime hit the streets due to double jeopardy.
People don't abandon so quickly the concept of the rule of law and just take matters in their own hands.
I know that this is an argument that we sometimes like to say in debateland, but it's simply untrue.
The system is deeply ingrained in our consciousness.
Most people cannot imagine a world without a country or the courts or the rule of law.
Second answer here is that if anything can create a public panic is to see that the criminal system harasses people who were already found innocent once and retries them over and over.
People can say to themselves, " jesus, this man's life is ruined now, and it could have just as easily been me. "
If anything, that's the kind of thing that could turn people much more wary and suspicious towards the authorities.
So for all of these reasons, we are very proud to oppose.