Fool me once shame on you.
Fool me twice shame on me.
For me three times double shame on me.
We say that if the state was unsuccessful in rehabilitating someone after giving it two shots already, then his third offense is just as much the state's fault as it is his own, and it's unfair and unreasonable to have him suffer all the consequences and all the blame.
Two arguments in this speech: first, why this proposition disproportionately targets and harms disenfranchised groups and b, why this would prove ineffective an ineffective tool in creating deterrence rendering the three strike system both unjustified and unsuccessful at what it's trying to achieve.
So first argument, all over the world prisons are disproportionately filled with minority population.
This correlation gets even stronger when it comes to re-offenders.
So it's immediately clear to us that these groups are going to be affected from this proposition most of all.
But why is that?
We say that there are three reasons.
Firstly, necessity.
When I literally have no other option, when all else fails and I need to bring food to the table somehow, then I'll resort to stealing money or stealing food.
Secondly, neglect from the government and society.
If I grew up in a poor neighborhood where all the buildings are ugly and all the schools are shitty and I look around and see neighboring areas that have it way better than me, I can't help but feel left behind.
And I start asking myself, why should I abide by the rules?
They don't have my back, why should I answer to them?
And thirdly, and most unfortunate reason, is profiling and biased treatment of the law authorities.
Minority populations suffer from more suspicion in the court systems or police officers patrolling their streets performing random arrests and so on.
This obviously leads directly to more arrests, but also indirectly tips into this distrust in the system that we've mentioned and creates more crime in an indirect way.
So this is a cycle that feeds itself.
These are all things that don't change after you get locked up.
Notice, when you return to your neighborhood, if anything, they get changed for the worse.
Your financial situation might be worse than before, your resentment for society might be bigger, so we see that crime in general, and recurring crime specifically, isn't a consequence of sociopaths as it's so convenient for us to believe, but of ongoing institutional failures that we all have a part in.
Therefore we say that society has a contributory guilt in this and as such it is impossible to offer a solution of giving up on these people, declaring them a lost cause and locking them up forever.
The only fair solution would require understanding that these are people with true hardships that the system overlooked and we really need to pay attention to.
We can attach parole officers, we can send more social workers, etcetera.
It is so convenient for the well off majority to simply tag criminals as monsters and lock them up lock them away from us and feel more secure.
But these are real people whose lives are being destroyed here.
They're they're somebody's son.
It's unfair and unjust.
Let's move on to talk about why deterrence doesn't work.
Let's clarify something: this debate is not about murder or rape, but rather theft and robbery.
Why?
Because if you're caught raping or murdering, then the punishment is usually very long, so a third offense is less likely.
So opposition might say, you know what?
We're more obligated to innocent people than people who committed crimes time and again and this helps deter crime and keeps people safe so we should do it.
This entire idea assumes that these crimes are a consequence of pure rational judgment.
Is if people calculate the probabilities and weigh pros and cons.
But we say that this doesn't work in cases of crimes that are due to lack of options, and as we saw specifically for re offenders, robbery theft are exactly such crime.
Moreover we think that the clear message to these communities, if this law passes, is that the state finally gave up on them for good.
The state that always like we always knew that the state doesn't really give a damn about us, now it doesn't even see us as human beings anymore.
This only enhances the hatred that they feel and the chances for more crime.
Kids have to see their father getting locked up for life for trying to get them a new pair of bikes.
How can they ever be expected to show respect for the police?
So maybe we put one dangerous person off the street, but at that very moment we created three more potentially dangerous people.
So for all of these reasons please propose.