We should introduce goal line technology.
And I guess that the question in this case should really be - why not?
Meaning, I think that the main burden in this debate, not like other debates, should primarily be on the opposition side to explain why not use this technological improvement that all it does is just make sure that referees are making less mistakes and the game gets a little fairer.
We need to understand: no matter how good or experienced you a referee at a football match is, he is still a human being and can still make mistakes.
He's unable to see everything always and always be right.
Especially not when he runs around on the court side for ninety minutes straight and when there's a lot of pressure from the side of the fans and the teams and the coaches and so on.
This is a recipe that can easily effect any man's judgment.
We also need to understand that deci decisions such as this, like was there a goal or not, are often decision that mean a lot a lot of money for a lot a lot of people.
So this, again, adds to the pressure but it also makes this decision something of value.
It's important to make it right.
So eventually we don't think that this has anything to do, it's not like a moral question that's complicated and requires a human judgment in any form, it's a very technical question: did the ball cross the line or not?
And these are exactly the types of questions that a computer with sensors can know the answer to much better than humans do.
It can be argued that some of the beauty of the game is exactly the fact that it doesn't involve any technology and that somehow worth the occasional mistake, but it's unclear why this is true when such mistakes are costing millions of dollars.
And in addition we'd like to point out that the use of these assisting technologies is already a common practice in many many other sport fields.
In tennis we can like a a player can challenge the decision off the referee and let the simulator determine whether like there was a point or not.
In basketball referees often request to take a look at the cameras when they're uncertain about a certain thing.
And we think that it would be extremely hard to argue that these games has become any less exciting or good than they were because like due to the use of this technology.
So in conclusion, we say that we are only talking about a very small change that's entire effect is that it prevents human errors, prevents regretful human errors, and is making the game more fair to everyone.
The burden is on the opposition side to tell us what on earth could possibly be wrong with that.
Please propose.