Sex education should be mandatory.
By this we mean to give comprehensive lessons around the age of fifteen, you know, beginning of high school, that would be passed on by experts, and in which the children will learn the following things: what number one, about the dangers of having unsafe sex, STD's, unwanted pregnancies, and so on.
Number two, correct usage of contraceptions, and number three how to be respectful towards your partner, when and if having sex.
We fully understand, that by doing so, the school is making a stand on a sensitive subject, that some parents might not be happy with.
We nonetheless strongly believe that this is a stand that must be taken.
Two arguments, number one, why do we think that sex ed is so crucial, and cannot be simply left for the parents?
And number two, why are we willing to upset or displease conservative or religious parents, in order to do so?
So, to the first arguments.
First of all, we think that it can be widely agreed upon, that it is essential that children in these ages, in which they start exploring their sexuality, will somehow learn about the three things that I've mentioned in the opening of my speech.
Now, we admits, fully, that to many children, perhaps most children, sex education classes aren't really necessary.
They wouldn't really teach you a lot of new stuff, and they usually are just a funny experience, or an awkward experience, and that is because many parents do sit down and talk with their children, and explain them, in an orderly fashion, you know, the birds and the bees talk.
Or, they have a big brother or a bigger sister, that that can use that they can be used as an example.
But, there are also children, that don't get to learn this in an orderly fashion, whether because their parents don't really know how to breach this subject, and prefer to avoid it altogether, or because they barely see their parents, that have to work like every day, and and get home back very late, or for any other reason really.
And, what these children will probably be exposed to are things like pornography.
And we think that pornography is a horrible example to learn from, both in terms of safety, and in terms of being respectful.
Sex ed classes are free.
These particular children, exactly the balancing factor that's so needed.
We have to make sure these children have at least one positive image of how sexuality should look like.
So, over to the next argument, why are we willing to displease certain parents?
First of all, because the like the children of these parents, despite what they might be thinking, are just as much children as other children, and then there's a huge probability that they will go out and explore their sexuality, one way or another during these years.
To think otherwise is to be incredibly naive, even blinded, to human nature, and we owe it to the children, not to the parents.
Those children might feel embarrassed, by having their parents upset from this.
It might put them in a tight spot, but it would be a hundred times better than having them, you know, have accidental like having them accidentally conceive and have to go through an abortion.
Additionally, the fact that there is a certain group that opposes some content, that's being delivered in the classroom, cannot be a good enough justification to avoid that this content.
Otherwise, we would have been left with barely nothing.
Should we avoid teaching evolution, just because creationists oppose it?
In like in every history class, we are teaching contents that are political, by definition, because the mere decision what to discuss, and what not to discuss, is political.
And so, you can never ever please all of the factions and groups in society.
So, to sum it all up, we showed you that sex ed is critical, for these children, and that there is no good cause to avoid discussing it.
Support the motion.