We should further exploit hydroelectric dams.
It is a fact that using traditional non-renewable sources of energy production like fossil fuels is hugely contributing to climate change and it is a fact that climate change poses a great risk to our entire species.
I doubt that my opponent will try and deny these things because if they choose to do so they are going directly against the strongly held scientific consensus.
The only logical conclusion of both these facts is of course that we as a species must quickly endeavor to make a substantial transition from the way we are used to produce energy and aim to rely much more on renewable energy sources.
There's also the additional little problem with non-renewable energy sources being non-renewable.
Meaning they will eventually end.
This makes prices incredibly unstable in the short term and of course forces us to find alternative renewable solutions anyway in the long term.
So we might as well find them as soon as possible and not be caught with our pants down in the future.
Another reason we must develop alternative energy solutions to fossil fuels has to do with political and economic reasons.
Our great dependence on oil and gas and fuel has made us hugely dependent on countries and regions who were blessed with large reserves of these resources and those just happened to be countries in the persian gulf.
This creates a problem in the west as some of these countries are outright ideological enemies, like iran, and others are problematic non-natural allies, like saudi arabia or qatar, that have fanatic religious regimes and horrid human rights abuses.
Yet we are compelled to overlook those in favor of economic incentives.
Having said all of that, what are our options?
Well basically there's solar power solutions, there's wind power solutions, and there's water power solutions.
We on side government believe that all of all of the above are important directions to pursue and are in no way mutually exclusive.
The most dominant and effective among the water power solutions is of course hydroelectric dams.
Now opposition may talk about how these dams create some environmental harms.
And perhaps that's true but providing enough energy to sustain the modern way of life is a messy business no matter how we look at it.
And when it comes to protecting the environment we need to think in terms of how to minimize the harm since it's just not plausible to completely, entirely avoid it.
So in comparison with using non-renewable energy sources, of course that whatever environmental harms these dams create are almost negligible.
But it's also possible that hydroelectric dams create more harm than using wind turbines, even though I'm not sure that that's the case, or solar panels, again even though I'm not an expert and I don't really know, but it's possible.
And so opposition may want to talk tell you that's the true comparative here are these other renewable sources of energy and that we should further exploit them instead of hydroelectric dams.
But the truth of the matter is that there just isn't enough potential in wind or solar power harnessing to satisfy the massive energy consumption of the modern society.
Hydroelectric dams account for roughly eighty five percent of renewable energy production nowadays.
Which means that it's production capabilities and potential far outweigh the other renewable solutions and so we basically are left with no choice but to further exploit hydroelectric dams.