I think that the prime minister has been a little unfair or at the very least unclear enough in his definition of what we are debating here because his entire speech focuses on how we must like better make or sure better enforce that the people who are being granted asylums are standing up to the criteria of who actually deserves it and that you know ordinary immigrants aren't just taking advantage of this by falsely pretending to be worthy of asylums and we totally agree.
We don't have any interest in people being granted asylums without them actually deserving it.
The thing is that in today's reality with the ongoing civil war in syria, there truly is a significant rise in refugees that do stand up to the criterion and that do actually deserve it.
So I think that it is side government's burden in this debate to defend things like setting stricter quotas of exactly how many asylums are granted that are necessarily going to leave out certain refugees that do deserve it.
Not just to say that we need to better look out for fraudulent claims because this is just simply pretty obvious.
So it is in this light that we turn now to answer side government's claims.
First, they tell us that the government needs to first and foremost look out for its own citizens and the influx of unskilled labor is harmful for the economy and comes at the expense of the citizens.
So the first answer here is that we are just unsure that it truly is harmful for the economy.
Even if it is unskilled labor.
As long as we strive to make them fit in and help them find jobs they certainly might contribute to the economy just like any other form of unskilled foreign labor.
You know researchers looking into this question today are at the very least undecided if not even actually leaning in favor of it and we mustn't forget that america has been billed as a safe haven for immigrants and refugees that were fleeing harsh circumstances and it emerged as the free world's leading superpower.
Second answer here is that even if it is a burden to some degree, we think that we simply cannot just ignore the moral meaning of sealing the gates.
It's true that the country is obligated to the well being of its citizens but this is not an absolute principle.
Like totally that is to say it doesn't mean that we can justify complete indifference to the unbearable misery of other people just because this will create mild inconvenience to our citizens and the third answer is that we think that's the foreign policy of the west in general, in the united states specifically, has a hand in bringing upon the horrific situation in syria by refusing to intervene in time and by seceding the control over to russia that is backing assad.
The very least that we can do is not to meet these refugees fleeing there with a shrug and a cold shoulder.
The next thing that we hear is that people will take advantage and cheat.
Well there is there are always people that will take advantage of loopholes.
This is just a part of reality but again, we are totally in favor of taking whatever step is necessary to minimize this.
Lastly they tell us that if we won't limit the a silence now, then populist leaders will take care of getting rid of it altogether later and we think that this logic is basically just giving up to populism.
We think that if anything, it is the other way around.
If we start compromising on our principles now, it will be that much easier to get rid of them completely later.
Besides we think that populist leaders like trump don't really concern themselves with the facts and the correct data of just how much asylums are being granted today.
This is what makes them populist.
This means that no matter how much asylums that we're going to grant trump will always exaggerate and blow up the numbers in order to serve his own message.
So what side government is proposing makes very little difference.
Look we've already shut down the doors before to refugees like for instance jewish refugees escaping persecution and mass murder in europe.
That is one of the most shameful episodes in american history.
Let's not repeat the same policies now.
Oppose the motion.