We should disband nato.
Along the sixty or so years of its existence, nato has turned from being the neighborhood watch to being the neighborhood bully.
Its actual interventions have turned out to be failures one by one, and its very existence, an ever looming presence, pose a serious threat to the stability and safety of the global community.
First argument.
How nato threatens russia and why it's a bad idea.
Nato was originally created with the sole purpose of intimidating the soviet union from trying to expand westward, and of course they created in return the warsaw alliance, and so throughout the cold war we had this mutual deterrence on both sides that was quite effective in preventing escalations.
But with the collapse of the USSR, the warsaw alliance was disband and so it was seen reasonable to assume that nato should also follow.
But in reality what happened is not only did nato not disband itself, but rather it expanded eastward, allowing for the united states to place soldiers and missiles right across the border from russia.
This understandably is being seen as a provocation by russia.
Why is that so bad?
Because vladimir putin's russia doesn't respond well to such threats.
There is little doubt today that russia isn't happy with a unipolar global system in which the USA has all the control, and it wants to reassert its position as an international power.
Perhaps that much is true with with nato or without it, but instead of intimidating the russians and have them quietly fold back, nato has served as a thorn in the side of russian pride, and it became a key catalyst or an excuse for russia to take all the more actions in the region.
Among its actions we can see the war against georgia, the intervention in the ukrainian crisis and annexation of crimea, and the intervention in the syrian civil war.
Nato feeds into the nationalist sentiment that fuels these aggressions, and had it not been for the western provocation of nato expanding eastward, it is unlikely that russia would have dared to take all these aggressive steps.
But nato provides putin with the local support he needs inside russia, and is a winning card with the international community as well.
This is why instead of being a protective stabilizing tool, nato has become a destabilizing force that brings more harm than good.
Second argument, why the interventionist approach has failed us.
So, nato isn't only seen as a body that reacts to attacks on its member states, like it originally was, but also serves as a form of interventionist force, as we can see from its involvement in the invasion of iraq and bombardment of libya.
It seems that whenever the west tries to intervene militarily, it only creates further chaos that leads to an even worse situation than before.
This is true to both the examples that I've mentioned earlier, and of course any other thing that pops to mind.
In addition, we simply don't see why american or french or norwegian soldiers should be should be sent off and fighting and dying for some remote county in georgia.
We believe that it's time to learn from the mistakes of our past and stop trying to see america and the west as the knights in bright shining armor that comes to save the day.
For all of these reasons, we believe that nato should be disband.