We in opposition also believe that education is important, but it is not all that matters when we talk about children.
We think that side government is taking this way too far.
They are treating children as if they are robots whose entire purpose is to sit down and and collect as much information as possible so that they could later on help promote society when they grow up.
Their entire line deals with how year-round schooling will lead to better students with better grades and how it's a shame to be wasting time, because we could have been been teaching children more stuff, or on how, god forbid, some students will not be focused in class on there, like, a week before they go on vacation.
We totally disagree that the metric by which this debate should be judged is only what leads to better education as if this is all that matters.
Because if this were the situation, then why not offer that all children need to live in boarding schools and just study for seven for seven days a week, fifteen hours a day?
This way we could have taught them even more, but I think it's fairly obvious to all of us that this is wrong, and it's not just a matter of like how effective this would be.
We assume that even if this would have been effective, even if we truly could have been teaching children plenty more this way, this would still be very, very wrong.
This type of logic may have caught on in some communist country like china or soviet russia, but it completely contradicts every set of beliefs that cherishes individual liberties.
So before I move to talk about the harms of like implementing a system in which you only get one week off every every couple of months, but there's no one big holiday, it's important to note that side government grossly exaggerates when describing the harms in the status quo.
They tell you that that students forget everything and have to be retaught from the start.
First, we just think that that's exaggerated.
We say that studying and is is basically like riding a bicycle, it doesn't really take you a month to to to refresh yourself and relearn.
You pick it up quite quickly after one lesson or maximum two lessons.
B, this could this problem could easily be fixed or solved by handing assignments or homework for children that would have to that they would have to prepare during their summer vacation in order to stay sharp.
Plenty of schools do this, and we have no problem with this.
Regarding like all the rest of their points, again, the fact that we could have taught them more is always true, but that's not how you win this debate, not without explaining why is this so crucial to be teaching children more and more and more stuff.
So, why do you why do we think that it's critical to allow a long summer vacation and we cannot just like we cannot just be happy with one week off here, one week off there.
First of all, because we believe that this phase in life when you're a student is quite reasonably the last like part of your life where you get to have such a long vacation.
Most people graduate and then they find some sort of job, and they will like have an entire lifetime to be working year round, with short vacations here and there.
But this experience in which you now have a full month or two months to just do whatever you feel like is precious and priceless, and we think that it would be a huge shame to be taking away from people the very few times in which they do get to have this, people that will anyway have an entire lifetime to develop a consistent pattern, as they tell us, or a boring routine, the way we would call it.
Second of all, we think that one week vacation is just not enough time to be doing a lot of things, like going traveling to a to a foreign country with your family for more than a couple of days or going to a summer camp where you get to meet a lot of friends outside of your school.
Where else would you get the chance to do something like this if you were learning all year round?
These are experiences that are just as enriching, if not more, than sitting in class and multiplying numbers.
There's more to life than the four walls of your classroom, and there is no better time to go out and explore everything than when you are young student.
We call you to oppose.