We should ban gambling.
We believe that true liberty means independence.
It's having control over the basic course of your life.
To have this control stripped from you, is to be robbed of your liberty, and we mustn't let that happen.
Surely, almost every decision in life can have unpredictable outcome, so let's be crystal clear: we're in favor of banning every activity, in which you gamble purely on conditions that you have no control or knowledge over.
This means no more roulettes, or slot machines, and with regard to card games, such as poker, this is arguably something that you can control by having some skill, so we're going to leave that question open.
We don't think that it harms in any way the principle that we defend in this debate.
So, obviously were also talking strictly about activities where significant sums of money are involved.
So, we're going to have two arguments in this speech: one, on when are we allowed to protect you from yourself, and second, on some practical effects of banning gambling.
First argument: like with any other thing we're banning, this is restricting people from doing certain things that they might want to do.
If they're not harming anyone else, why is it okay for us to intervene?
The answer here is that gambling is highly addictive, as the huge number of compulsive gamblers can attest to.
And because it is by definition something that you have no control over, at the point in which you get addicted, you can easily reach a stage where you lose all control over your life, therefore in this case, much like all sorts of very addictive narcotics, it is permissible to intervene and the only way to do that is to try and cut it at its root, because once you're in it, it's probably too late.
What's more, it's usually the weakest, most poorest, that find themselves addicted to gambling.
Why?
Because where wealthy gamblers see casinos as a fun, amusing, outdoor activity, for the less well off it's often considered their rescue wheel, their ticket out of poverty, and so they end up spending much more, and getting sucked in due to this, unfortunately, false hope.
These people are sometimes not educated enough, or otherwise just too enchanted by the thought of suddenly becoming rich, that they're unable to fully realize how scarce their chances of success really are.
These are the people that casinos are targeting, because they know they'll be able to squeeze a lot of money out out of them.
So essentially, we say that this is a lot like fraud, or false advertising, and this is all the more reason to protect our citizens, even at the expense of forbidding then something they might want to do.
And of course, it's not only the gamblers themselves that end up getting hurt, but also their families, seeing as many compulsive gamblers end up mortgaging their properties, or otherwise grossly indebted, ruining their families to no fault of their own, and so by banning gambling, we're helping them as well.
It's not only harm to your own self.
Second argument: moving on to some of the practical effects of this ban.
So opposition often say: listen, if we ban gambling, than a black market will develop, that will involve all sorts of other illegal activities, and all sorts of criminal types, which will make the gamblers' lives much more complicated.
Legalizing gambling helps us superviso and protect gamblers, and so on and so on.
So here's our response: black markets never actually go away just by legalizing the thing that they're dealing in.
They can very much coexist alongside the legal market.
If we legalize gambling, it' it will become much more accessible to many more people, who would be duped into the world of gambling, and end up in the black market anyway, pawning their cars and houses, because the accumulated debts that they have no other way of paying.
And so, in this particular example, we think that the legal market would just intensify the black market, and it's preferable to ban it, and try and deal with the small black market that exists today, and as sadly, always has and always will.
And for all of these reasons, we are very glad to propose.