So side governments case in this debate basically says the following thing, there are no clear advantages to the cloning of specifically human beings that we cannot achieve by cloning human organs or cloning animals or bringing babies to the world.
But there are a few potential ethical problems that might arise with regard to how society treats the cloned people.
We are going to win this case by first pointing to some great advantages in specifically human cloning, and secondly by showing you why all of the concerns that were brought up by side government are technical and solvable and not inherent.
But before that we think that we need to discuss the mental state or the mental situation of these clones, because this can help bring a little bit order to this discussion and make it a little less blurry.
I think that we need to ask whether my clone also includes all of my personal traits and my memories or is it like a totally new born baby that comes to the world tabula rasa.
The other side chose not to address this question but I think that it is implied from their logic that we are talking about the former.
That a clone like we're talking about clones that are that are created as exact replicas of the person there they were cloned from.
And this includes also mental state and whatever stems from this.
Because you know they talk to us about the clones being human agents and about property claims to the like of the original person.
So from now on we are simply going to assume that this is the situation we're going to go with that.
Okay so side government don't see any advantages to cloning.
Here are some meaningful ones: a, if god forbid, I lost my kid or my partner in a car accident or something, cloning might help me bring him back to life.
That's right, I'm talking about overcoming death.
If this is not a meaningful benefit, I truly don't know what is.
B, it is possible to clone great thinkers.
Now think about how much could be achieved if there were two or three more einstein's that could join forces in research of the universe.
Now there's a lot more to say, but I think that we'll settle for these two advantages for now.
And note that these are advantages that could in no way be achieved by simply cloning sheep and are unique to human cloning.
Oh but what about the ethical problems that tim talks about?
Well let's see.
First he talks to us about there being property rights issues to the clone.
This is a very weird point.
This will be a person, not a property.
No one has property rights to it.
Like, problem solved.
Next he talks about cloned organ reaping farms or something.
Now never mind the fact that a minute before that, he tells us himself that we are already developing technologies for cloning organs that are going to solve this shortage problem therefore there's no sense in such farms.
But hey here's an idea, let's outlaw such farms if they do if they will exist.
Human cloning will probably be easy enough to supervise.
It's expensive as team says, it's not something that you could simply do with great ease and speed at some back alley, so it will be pretty easy for us to make sure that this doesn't happen.
Problem solved.
And then tim tells us that society is going to treat these clones with great cruelty.
Now perhaps that's true, society is in fact not very patient towards whoever is considered different.
But it's it's no different from problems of prejudice and discrimination that minority populations have to deal with every day.
This is simply a matter that takes some time and an adjustment period and and eventually this will be solved as well.
It might take a few generations for sure, but that by itself is not a good enough reason to curtail the scientific progress and to prevent all of the great advantages of human cloning.
Please oppose the motion.