So we hear at the beginning of their speech quite a lot from side government on how much trans fat are a risk and unhealthy and leading to heart diseases and so on.
Now we're not going to argue, obviously, this is off-clash, of course, that trans fat isn't healthy, but we should pay it like we should keep in mind that sugar is also horrible for health.
So we might as well ban this is well, right?
And what about carbs and white flour?
It has also become quite apparent recently that dairy products are also terrible for one's health, so we need to cut them out as well.
And what about what tobacco does to your lungs, or what alcohol does to your liver?
And it doesn't even stop there.
We say also that it's very risky and dangerous to one's health not to indulge in any sports activity.
So, how about we force everyone to exercise?
We think we've made our point quite clear.
If we would want to force people to to lead healthy lives, then we will never see the end of it.
The question is, therefore, not whether something is healthy or dangerous, but whether it is legitimate that we make the decision for our citizens.
And we say that to that effect, we almost hadn't heard anything coming from the previous speaker.
So then we do hear about how hard it is for the consumer to know exactly when he consumes trans fat, because there's a lot of different types of of, you know, fats, so here's a couple of ideas that can solve this problem.
A: educate the public.
Go out with a with a public campaign that explains exactly how dangerous trans fat is and teaches exactly how to avoid it.
Here's a second idea: we are okay with passing a law that forces a special, like, mark for each product that contains trans fat.
Maybe we can even put warning labels, like we put on cigarette packs.
This is not a good enough reason to ban all of these products altogether.
And eventually, we hear on how hard it is to opt out, because all of the corporations want to use it because it's cheap, so here's a few answers.
Well first of all, yeah, it's true, but it's true that it's harder, but it's far from impossible.
Spoken from a vegan, I know that that I like I know a thing or two about how hard it is to avoid ingredients that are very dominant in many foods that people buy.
But you could always build your diet more like to to be based more on greens, like fruits or vegetables and and cereals and legumes, things like rice and barley and lentils and and beans and chickpeas and so on.
These are not things that are expensive in any way, and everyone can afford them.
B: we think that once we educate the public to as to the dangerous of trans fats, then there will be a market for alternative products that don't have trans fats.
Of course, such a market already exists but the more that we educate the public, the larger this market will grow.
And like any market, if it's important enough for consumers, then they will buy more of it, and this option will become more available and and and cheaper for everyone and if not, then not.
This just means that people don't care enough.
So, eventually we say that we have to treat our citizens like grownups, like big boys that are responsible for the consequences of their own decisions.
We don't have a right to force anyone to lead a healthy life or to have a healthy lifestyle.
People are allowed to hurt themselves if they so choose.
We believe that, in general, the country, the state and the law can can only intervene in actions that harm a certain third party according to the harm principle.
So all in all, very proud to oppose.