Today, with the many advances in technology it has become possible to detect defeats and disabilities before birth. Particularly controversial is the issue of genetic screening of fetuses to determine their predisposition towards certain congenital disorders, and even more concerning, whether we should intervene to prevent them. Methods of genetics screening are used when considering In Vitro fertilization (IVF), as well as for naturally conceived fetuses.

Using In Vitro fertilization (IVF) techniques, an embryo can be made by the fertilization of an egg with a sperm outside of the female’s body. The resulting embryonic cells can be tested by removing one and screening the DNA complement to ascertain the presence of specific genes. This procedure is already being employed in labs. It can help to identify potentially debilitating illnesses or inherited disorders, and also for determining the sex of a baby to allow parents carrying a sex-linked disorder gene to procreate without passing on a genetic disorder to their children.

In theory nearly any couple can request genetic screening, but it is highly recommended if one or both partners have genetic abnormalities, there is a family history of genetic abnormalities or when one of the partners is from a high risk ethnic group. Genetic testing involves family history assessment and undergoing genetic tests (1). In the UK, up until March 2011 testing has been granted mainly to couples who already had genetic diseases in their families such as sickle cell anemia or cystic fibrosis. This testing is in the UK, under the endorsement of the national pre-pregnancy screening program is now available to all couples, even before they conceive a child and without any family history of diseases(2).

Meanwhile in the US commercial companies such as Counsly in 2010 had already launched a product that detects carriers of some genetic disorders (mainly single gene disorders). After the detection of such a disease carrier, parents can decide to get IVF fertilization and exclude the defected gene so they have a child without inheritable diseases (3).

Controversy has been sparked in a case in the USA in 2000, when a baby boy, Adam Nash, was born after having been selected (genetically screened) as an embryo, from several embryos created by IVF by his parents, on the grounds that he was genetically healthy and able to act as a bone marrow donor for his sister, who had a genetic disease.

This debate is about whether parents should be allowed to genetically screen for healthier offspring therefore preventing inheritable diseases.

1. Merck Manual, http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/sec22/ch256/ch256b.html , accessed 05/21/2011

2. James Meikle, Pre-pregnancy genetic screening backed by government advisers, 04/06/2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2011/apr/06/pre-pregnancy-genetic-screening-government , accessed 05/21/2011

3. Andrew Pollack, Firm Brings Gene Test to Masses, 01/28/2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/29/business/29gene.html , accessed 05/21/2011
