Sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) are investment vehicles owned by governments that wish to invest some of their country’s reserves of money abroad. In the past they tended to be owned by countries rich in natural resources, particularly oil, such as Norway and Kuwait. These states were keen to invest some of their high resource revenues in the good times, as a hedge against low points in the commodities cycle and the time when their natural wealth becomes exhausted. Investing such large sums of money at home was likely to lead to wasteful spending and inflation, as well as concentrating risk, so they sought opportunities abroad in bonds and share markets.

About two-thirds of the value of global SWFs is associated with oil wealth, but other emerging economies have also established state-owned companies to invest some of their reserves overseas. [1] As long ago as 1974 Singapore’s government established Temasek as a holding company for state-investments. This has been seen as an important contributor to national prosperity, both through the income it has generated from wise investments, and because of the way it has supported Singapore’s emergence as a developed economy with thriving high-tech and financial sectors. More recently Asian countries with current account surpluses have built up large government reserves of currency, and have set up sovereign wealth funds in order to generate higher returns on these holdings. It was estimated in 2007 that SWFs held $2500 billion in assets, with a projected increase to over £10000 billion by 2012. [2]

SWFs vary greatly in their investment strategies, with some like Norway’s stabilisation fund or Kuwait’s Investment Authority being content to act as passive investors holding small stakes in hundreds of companies as well as mutual funds, private equity groups and hedge funds. Others, such as Temasek or Dubai International Capital are more active, seeking to take substantial positions in foreign companies or even to buy them outright.

Concern has been raised over the rapid growth in SWF assets, and the impact they may have on international financial markets. More politically controversial in many countries is the motivation behind the more active SWFs’ strategies – are they seeking simply to maximise returns for their state owners, or could their purchases be part of a more sinister plan to exploit financial stakes abroad for political reasons? Attempts by state-owned companies from China and Dubai to buy major American companies ran up against political opposition in 2006-7 and were abandoned, although in 2008 flows of money from SWFs have been welcomed as part of efforts to shore up shaky banks.

As SWFs have become more prominent, many proposals have been put forward to restrain their activities, including voluntary codes promoted by the IMF and suggestions that they commit to becoming only passive investors. Others, including former US Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, have argued for stronger action, such as rules restricting their voting rights or to limit their investment in a company to a maximum level of, say 20%. This topic focuses upon the arguments for and against sovereign wealth funds in general, but does include reference to some of the most popular models of regulation.

[1] Teslik, Lee Hudson, ‘Backgrounder: Sovereign Wealth Funds’, 2009, p.6

[2] Johnson, Simon, ‘The Rise of Sovereign Wealth Funds’, 2007
