In the past two decades the internet has come to be a dominant part of people’s lives. For work, pleasure, staying in touch, and countless other uses, the internet has become an indispensable tool for many individuals. Without it, much of the information-based civilization that has been built up would stop working the way we are accustomed to. As the internet has become more important so too have access to the most cutting-edge systems to provide high speed, security, and data storage become critical. Broadband internet provides the fastest access to the internet, and is now essential to the functioning of the economy both globally and locally.

The increased importance of the internet has spurred a significant debate over the nature of the rights to access it. Is internet access now a fundamental right because it is a critical tool in the expression of other freedoms such as the freedom of expression? As yet there is no consensus on an answer. The United Nations special rapporteur on the freedom of expression has stated “Given that the Internet has become an indispensable tool for realizing a range of human rights, combating inequality, and accelerating development and human progress, ensuring universal access to the Internet should be a priority for all States.” [1] Many countries, including France, Costa Rica, Spain, and Greece have all legally enshrined the right to internet access. Most countries have not yet followed suit, though vigorous debate flourishes in many polities, such as the United States and United Kingdom. [2]

If internet access is a human right, or even recognised simply as being important for everyone to have, then how should it be ensured that everyone has access? Some suggest that governments have a duty to provide service through monopolies run by state companies, and that these services would be more efficient than private provision. Others say it is the place of the private sector to provide these services, and that it is always the private sector, absent state bureaucracy, that provides the superior service, especially if the state were to make provisions to guarantee service to everyone.

This debate seeks to piece out the case for each side by examining the rights to internet, the risks state provision entails, and the relative cost savings or accruals from state internet providers. For the sake of this debate it is worthwhile to limit the scope to the developed world, where the possibility of providing extensive broadband service is a realistic policy.

[1] La Rue, F., “Report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression”, Human Rights Council, A/HRC/17/27, 16 May 2011, http://www2.ohchr.org/english/bodies/hrcouncil/docs/17session/A.HRC.17.27_en.pdf p.22

[2] See the debatabase debate “ This House believes that internet access is a human right ”
