In many parts of the world, migration has replaced fertility and mortality as the leading agent of demographic change. It is estimated that one billion of the world’s seven billion people are migrants (1), and among them, 244 million are international migrants in 2015 (2).

But today, when we talk about migration, we often think of asylum seekers, hazardous adventures, illegal migrants and the current challenging issues related to the European migration crisis.

This undesired migration experience is usually made under circumstances of coercion involving threats to life and livelihood, whether arising from wars, ethnic conflicts, religious persecution, famine or natural disaster.

Nevertheless, migration can also be a result of a free choice and desire to move. For individuals coming from the 3rd world, that decision implies a long procedure, a strong plan, meticulous researches, money, and eventually some networking, to meet the very restrictive legal requirements of the western world.

Developing countries don’t just accept that part of their population will leave with many investing in their own infrastructure, opening to privatization, and encourage internal and external investments, to create a more attractive working environment. However, the number of migrants who have chosen to leave their families and make a living in the developed world does not seem to decrease as a result.

The efforts made by these countries to improve their education system, gain international recognition, and to create new business dynamics, particularly through start-up clusters or technology centres (technopoles), seem to be not enough to retain young students and skilled professionals.

These young and middle-aged intellectuals, men and women who have attended - or prepared to attend - higher education, are driven by a high desire of learning and self-achievement. They are known to be the subject of the « brain drain » phenomenon - or what we can broadly call the « intellectual migration », and we will refer to them as “intellectuals” here.

Even though these migrants have the advantage of being literate, highly skilled, and often supported by their host school or employer, they rarely escape the rule of facing a certain level of discrimination - whether with regard to their salaries in comparison to natives, when looking for accommodation, or dealing with the host country’s administration.

They strive to make their own place within the developed countries, and most - if not all - of them, don’t miss the opportunity to acquire the host country citizenship, despite the long related administrative procedure and the fact that they may have finished their studies or taken the most of their foreign professional experience.

So why do intellectual migrants choose to stay in their host countries and endure such struggles, while they could claim nice opportunities if they go back to their countries of origin?

Are there any hidden reasons of their migration beyond education and economics? And is the remarkable increase of intellectual female migrants linked somehow to these reasons?
