Wars fought in some far away land are typically unpopular. One such far away war currently being fought by a variety of powers, particularly the United States, France and Russia, is the ongoing campaign against Islamic State (IS) or Daesh. Daesh, as with other Islamist terror groups is clearly a threat to the west but how much of a threat is it? Given the airtime given to news about terrorism and conflict in the Middle East it would seem that it might be considered the most significant threat to the west. Certainly terrorism is the only threat that regularly causes alerts, lockdowns, and troop deployments in western cities. Brussels in the wake of bombings and shootings in Paris was in lockdown for four days to catch those involved in the attacks on Paris. [1]

Islamic State is in large part a result of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Al Qaeda in Iraq was rebranded Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham and the remnants of this organisation were given a new opportunity with the start of the uprising against President Assad in Syria. Unlike other terrorist organisations Daesh has become a territorial entity with the creation of the Islamic State around Raqqa in Northern Syria. This territory was significantly expanded in 2014 with an invasion of Iraq which conquered much of the north of the country and briefly reached the outskirts of Baghdad. [2] The west, and more recently Russia, have fought back with airstrikes and support for the regime in Iraq as well as other groups such as the Free Syrian Army and the Kurds.

Defining what is the most significant threat to national security is important. It is something that helps determine the defence and security spending a country needs to make; should it invest more in policing and surveillance or in ballistic missile defence or nuclear weapons of our own?

[1] Escritt, Thomas, and MacDonald, Alastair, ‘Brussels lockdown ends but manhunt goes on’, Reuters, 25 November 2015, http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/11/26/us-france-shooting-belgium-idUSKBN0TE26I20151126#qS8m4pKvIjs9gmhd.97

[2] Laub, Zachary, and Masters, Jonathan, ‘The Islamic State’, CFR Backgrounders, 16 November 2015, http://www.cfr.org/iraq/islamic-state/p14811
