Negative advertising focuses upon a rival product and uses explanations of its flaws, or unfavourable comparisons with other products, to persuade the public not to buy it. A similar approach is increasingly being applied to media and communications used during election campaigns; sometimes a politician contending an election will make an explicit comparison between herself and her rival, but some of the most effective adverts and broadcasts simply attack opponents without revealing their own sympathies.

Negative campaigning is to be contrasted to positive campaigning, which attempts to convince voters to support a particular candidate by illustrating his or her strengths as a leader or policymaker. Positive campaigns may be personal, attributing favourable qualities to the candidate. Alternately, positive campaigns may be abstract or party oriented, demonstrating the beneficial effects of particular policies, or promising voters greater personal prosperity or a more favourable business environment. Positive campaigns may be used to attack an opponent indirectly – for example, by highlighting a candidate’s frugal lifestyle in response to news that an opponent has concealed earnings or solicited payments from lobbyists.

The debate on the impact of negative or attack adverts on politicians’ conduct and the public’s relationship to the political system gained force during and after the 2000, 2004 and 2008 United States presidential primary and election campaigns. In 2004, Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, an independent political action group set up by a number of Vietnam veterans, paid substantial sums of money to run a series of adverts that implied that Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry had lied about honours he had received during the conflict. A number of the group’s members were found to be directly involved in the Republican presidential campaign; they subsequently left to avoid accusations of collusion. There is also strong evidence to suggest that during the 2000 Republican party primary, the campaign backing George Bush Jnr for the presidential nomination paid a political consultancy business to run a “push poll”- a fake telephone survey [i] - which implied that a rival candidate had fathered a child out of wedlock [ii] .

Debates on this topic will focus on whether steps should be taken to ban negative political advertising. Issues of enforcement- fines, criminal prosecutions, revoking the licences of complicit media organisations- will figure significantly in the proposition side’s arguments. The opposition side are likely to build responses around concepts such as free speech, press independence and the practicality of enforcement action.

[i] Push Polls. National Council on Public Polls, 22 May 1995. http://www.ncpp.org/?q=node/41

[ii] “Tales of a Push Pollster”. Mother Jones, 26 Octboer 2006. http://motherjones.com/politics/2006/10/tales-push-pollster
