First and foremost, it is necessary to give a clear definition of the concept of civil society. It can be understood as ‘the population of groups formed for collective purposes primarily outside of the State and marketplace’ (van Rooy, 1998: 30). Such groups are based on solidarity networks, and on ‘cross-cut vertical ties of kinship and patronage’ (Lewis, 2002: 570).

The importance of civil society, and the role it should play in countries’ political life, are widely debated issues. Some scholars such as McFaul go as far as to argue that democracy can never come into being without an active civil society [1] . Others, while recognizing its importance, argue that civil society alone cannot bring about actual changes in the country’s political life, without a decision on the part of the elites [2] . Indeed, it can be argued that an excessively active civil society is dangerous for political stability. Besides democracy, the development and involvement of civil society in the political life is often seen as beneficial for economic development.

The issue has recently become extremely relevant to the African context. Commentators agree that we are currently witnessing the ‘rise of a vocal and vibrant civil society in Africa’ ( Moyo, 2011). Societal Actors’ crucial role in the Arab Spring is only one aspect of such process. Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) are coming into being and thriving across the continent. However, too often such organizations are unable to actively and effectively take part in their country’s political life ( INTRAC, 2012). Scarcity of funds, hostile governments and restrictions on speech limit CSOs potential involvement. International and regional actors, therefore, call for a deeper inclusion of civil society in African political life.

The issue, however, remains controversial. Many underline that the idea of civil society’s involvement being positive for political life has been developed in the context of a western-centric literature. Indeed, the concept itself of civil society has its roots in Western European experiences. Furthermore, as highlighted before, scholars do not even agree that CSOs play a positive role in western contexts. The purpose of this debate is to understand how the concept of civil society adapts to the African context, and specify the pros and cons of a wider involvement of societal actors in African political life. Are there African specificities that justify a limited involvement of civil society in the political life? Or, on the contrary, should we consider the western example and advocate for a wider participation of societal actors in politics?

[1] McFaul, M (2002) ‘The Fourth Wave of Democracy and Dictatorship: Noncooperative Transitions in the Postcommunist World’, World Politics, 54: 2.

[2] Rustow, D. (1970) ‘Transitions to democracy. Toward a dynamic model’, Comparative Politics, 2: 3.
