Creative commons licenses are a kind of copyright license that gives people the right to use, share, and expand upon artists’ work. They offer users of content significant protection against accusations of copyright infringement and are even believed by advocates to offer artists greater flexibility and profit potential than traditional copyright. Detractors on the other hand worry that they serve only to erode artists’ control of their work and their potential to earn income from it because of its dissemination into the public space. As it is a new field, the full legal ramifications and doctrines of creative commons licenses remain in contention.

Copyright is certainly not universal. For much of history ideas have been fair game to whoever could make use of them. The state would grant rights and monopolies on a case by case basis but this was as a reward or in return for benefit to the state not based upon inherent ideas of ownership. The invention of the printing press however meant that ideas could potentially travel much faster and made copying a work considerably easier so increasing demands for protection for the creator of a work. The first form of copyright statute was adopted in Venice in 1517 governing printing licences and from 1545 Venice also prohibiting publication of an author’s work without permission in an attempt to prevent abuses in the printing trade. It stated “it has been decreed that in future no printer in this city of ours shall dare to print or to sell printed copies of any work… if it is not made clear by original document… that the author of the work, or his immediate heirs, are content and desire that it should be printed and sold.” [1] Copyright has also always been used by governments to control information. [2]

The first modern copyright law that gives rights to authors is generally considered to be the Statute of Anne from 1710. It was enacted because printing without consent was causing writers “very great detriment and [leading] too often to the Ruin of them and their families” to prevent this the author “shall have the sole right and liberty of printing such Book and Books for the term of One and twenty years” with the act was enforceable with fines. [3] Since this time copyright has become much broader and the length has often been increased. The system has gone worldwide but is now under threat from the internet and the ability to easily share things it brings.

The role of the state is still key in copyright as it is the only possible enforcer. But the increasing unenforceability of copyright has led to calls to alter the dynamics of copyright in the context of art which could mean forcing artists to release their work under creative commons licenses.

This debate examines the various arguments for a new regime of artistic property rights, in which a new baseline would be creative commons licenses rather than more traditional, stricter copyright protections.

[1] Venetian Decree on Author-Printer Relations, Venice (1545), Primary Sources on Copyright (1450-1900), eds L. Bently &amp; M. Kretschmer, www.copyrighthistory.org , http://copy.law.cam.ac.uk/cam/tools/request/showRepresentation?id=representation_i_1545

[2] Green, Jonathon, and Nicholas J Karolides. 2005. The encyclopedia of censorship. Rev. ed. /. New York: Facts On File.

[3] Statute of Anne, London (1710), Primary Sources on Copyright (1450-1900), eds L. Bently &amp; M. Kretschmer, www.copyrighthistory.org , http://copy.law.cam.ac.uk/cam/tools/request/showRepresentation?id=representation_uk_1710
