The internet allows anyone with access to view, create, and spread information. However, people and governments can use that information either for ‘good’ or ‘not so good’ purposes. The spread of information and growing communication over the internet can promote democracy, but it can also be used for repression. One thing that is certain is that its importance in society and politics will continue to grow. US Senator Ted Stevens called the internet just a “series of tubes”. There are now 2.08 billion people on the internet; searching on Google &amp; Yahoo; forming social networks on Facebook and MySpace; sharing videos on YouTube; tweeting on Twitter; shopping on EBay and Amazon; playing online games; and accessing news from around the world. The debate on whether the internet contributes to democratization was in part triggered by statistical research that indicates a strong correlation between levels of internet penetration and degrees of democracy, which proponents have argued shows that the internet can contribute to democratization 1. Opponents claim this is just a result of the fact that developed regions make up for over half of internet use 2. Russia and China, important members of the UN security council, are still not liberal democracies. In the wake of the Arab Spring and successful revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia, the role of the internet in protest and grassroots movements for democratic reform has become more evident. A parallel debate also runs as to what type of democracy the internet might encourage; this, however, is not included in the scope of this debate. The aim of each side in the debate must, therefore, be to prove the effects of the internet in the majority of cases, rather than arguing about a few ‘bunker’ states such as North Korea, which restrict freedoms across the board.

1. Richard E. Sclove. “Cybersobriety: how a commercially driven internet threatens the foundations of democratic self-governance and what to do about it.” Community Practice in the network society: local action/global interaction. Day, Paul and Schuler, Douglas. Routledge. London. 2004.

2. Internet World Stats. “Internet Usage in Africa", 2011
