The issue of big versus small government is a significant in the election campaigns of many countries – and has recently been the subject of many hysterical pronouncements in the US. In reality no incoming government does that much to change the overall size of government as there are, in practice, only so many savings that can be made or new initiatives that can be launched within the confines of acceptable levels of taxation.

This argument is a particularly interesting one to study in the US as it is so ripe for the pricking of illusions on both sides of the political divide.

Even arriving at a definition of what is meant by ‘the size of government’ is problematic. As this debate will focus on the United States, it may be worth dealing with a few popular misconceptions before they take hold, although there is plenty of room to work around these, as will be demonstrated in the substantive material itself.

One of the reasons why giving definition to this debate is so difficult is the lack of clarity in what is meant by government. Usually cutting the size of the Federal Government means that the work – and expenditure - is just picked up at the state level instead and vice versa. As this argument is likely to be most vociferous in relation to the Federal Government in the context of an election, the focus will be there, but it is a slightly meaningless distinction. To take two famous examples [i] :

Ronald Reagan (President 1981 – 1989) is treated as the patron saint of small government Conservatives. Despite this the size of the Federal government increased faster under Reagan than almost any other president in history – as measured be either the number of staff on Washington’s payroll or by the total expenditure of the Federal Government.

Bill Clinton (President 1993 – 2001) is considered the ultimate big government Liberal of Democrat dreams and Republican nightmares. However, by the same measure the size of government actually shrunk and reduced spending resulted in a balanced budget for the first time in decades.

Partisans on both sides would find explanations for these figures, which, in reality, would have little to do with reality. Instead it should be noting that this debate has more to do with (in addition to Sophistic rhetoric) the attitudes and intentions of the two great tribal herds of US politics than it does with anything else. It is, ultimately, a debate about political philosophy rather than political economy. The fact that the cost of government has increased under every single successive president is one universally ignored. Such counter-intuitive realities can be observed in a huge number of political situations; it really say anything surprising about politics but is a good reason to double check the facts relied on by participants in a debate.

Essentially the philosophical differences are these: those in favor of small government believe that individuals, their families and communities are better placed than the state to help themselves and those around. By doing so, individuals learn valuable skills of self-reliance and self-respect. By contrast those who favor government-led action tend to believe that society as a whole should take responsibility for ensuring a certain quality of living for all its members and that by ensuring that there is a safety net people are better able to overcome transient crises or social inequalities in order to become helpful members of society.

The other key aspect of the debate is the role of taxation in society. Those in favor of small government tend to believe that reducing the overall tax burden will stimulate the economy as a whole, by promoting enterprise, investment and entrepreneurialism. They say that this, in turn creates jobs and “wealth”. Small government conservatives generally abide by the mantra that individuals know how to spend their money better than the Federal Government does.

Those associated with a Big Government approach tend to favor the use of tax as a redistributive system arguing that by taking a small amount from those who can afford it (obviously one person’s ‘small’ is not that of another) the government can use it to improve services such as education across the board, to everyone’s benefit.

[i] For the purpose of these comparisons, FDR has been removed from comparisons simply because the cost of WWII and the Big Society response to the Great Depression mean that his time in office is simply not representative of general trends.
