The so-called superdelegates are senior members of the US Democratic Party who have an automatic right to attend and vote at the party’s convention to select their presidential and vice-presidential candidates. These are former presidents, current senators, representatives and members of the Democratic National Committee. [i] Speaking broadly, supporters of the system say that it injects welcome expertise into the process while critics say that it is simply undemocratic.

By way of context, it ties into the primary system where ordinary party members express their support for one candidate or another on a state by state basis. In turn the state parties then send delegates to their party’s nominating convention where they are bound to vote in accordance with the wishes of the party members in their state. Superdelegates, by contrast, are not bound in terms of who they vote for and are free to choose. Both sides of this debate accept the fact that this gives disproportionate influence to party elders and much the debate revolves around whether that is a good thing or not. Although some of the superdelegates are unpledged state delegates (established on a predetermined basis before the start of the primary campaign), the vast majority fall into the category of PLEOs – the senior party figures. The ratio of the two groups voting power is roughly one to ten.

Comparing the voting power of superdelegates to that of an ordinary party member the ratio works out at about 1:10,000. In the light of this, clearly Proposition has a strong argument in the simple fact that the system undermines the principal of one person, one vote and there is little Op can do to deny that. Instead Op needs to demonstrate the system is not meant to work like that and that the superdelegates fulfill another role. For example in the build up to the Obama/Clinton convention it was widely suspected that the convention could come out to a dead heat between the two and that superdelegates could be used to break that deadlock. Opponents say that such action would be redolent of Gore/Bush decision being thrown into the Supreme court rather than allowing it to be decided by the voters.

The only convention where the result has actually been decided by super-delegates was the selection of Walter Mondale to run against Ronald Reagan in 1984. Mondale went down to a massive defeat as Reagan swept the board. Some have suggested that Mondale lacked legitimacy in the eyes of the electorate and that contributed to his defeat. Others would argue that since Mondale had a slight edge over his rival Gary Hart, superdelegates were simply following the popular vote. Conversely in 1968 – before the superdelegate system was introduced, big party bosses handed the nomination to Hubert Humphrey despite the fact he had not won a single primary.

Perhaps interestingly in 2008, Mondale, himself a superdelegate, voted for Clinton.

[i] Woodward, Colin, ‘Democratic Party to Keep Controversial Superdelegates’, Newsweek, 2 August 2010, http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2010/08/02/democratic-party-to-keep-controversial-superdelegates.html
