This debate is not a cost benefit analysis of whether Catalonia should remain within Spain as Catalonia despite how much many Catalans may wish for a vote on independence has yet to get that far. Instead for the moment the much more urgent question is whether the Catalans should get their vote on independence at all; the Catalans clearly say yes while the Spanish government and the other regions are firmly against. Once the issue of whether a referendum should be had is resolved and accepted by both sides, or the issue become less relevant by proposals of unilateral Catalan moves towards independence then this debate may become irrelevant and one about the costs and benefits of full independence much more necessary.

Although the pros and cons of independence are not particularly relevant to this debate the historical context for why the Catalans should want to have independence and why the Spanish state should be so against the prospect that, unlike the UK with its own secession problems over Scotland, 1 it is unwilling to allow a referendum on the issue may be of interest.

In the early part of the 15 th Century what is now Spain was still divided politically, Catalonia was a part of the Kingdom of Aragon rather than the Kingdom of Castile. In 1479 the territories of the two kingdoms were united in a personal union through the marriage of the King of Aragon Ferdinand II and Queen of Castile Isabella. Their grandson Charles I (usually known as Charles V outside Spain as a result of being Holy Roman Emperor) became the King of both territories in 1516. However each region within the Kingdoms maintained considerable autonomy; for example taxes had to be sought through each regions cortes rather than nationally and the Catalans in particular were often unwilling to pay for what they saw as Castile’s empire.

During the War of Spanish Succession Catalonia first recognised Philip V and then turned to the other claimant Archduke Charles when he entered Catalonia. Philip however won the war and kept the entirety of peninsular Spain in the Treaty of Utrecht on 1713. Having been on the losing side Catalonia had its constitution and independent political structure abolished, and its culture and language suppressed.

Catalan nationalism like other national identities was a result of the Renaixença of Catalan culture and literature during the 19 th century however this was simply devoted to greater self government within Spain rather than independence leading to the creation of the Commonwealth of Catalonia on 6 th April 1914 with the first devolution of powers back to the region of Catalonia from the Spanish state. 2 During the last days of the Spanish civil war Lluís Companys the Catalan President actually declared independence but there was never any opportunity to implement it. General Franco who won the Spanish Civil war in 1939 destroyed Catalan autonomy centralising Spain and suppressing dissent.

This suppression helped fuel resentment against a centralised Spanish government creating democratic movements against the dictatorship. Catalonia’s role in the end of the Franco regime and the return to democracy created for several decades a belief that the Spanish state would allow greater autonomy so allowing a Catalan nation within Spain. 3 However in 2000 the Popular Party won a landslide and began attempts to centralise Spain along with encouraging boycotts against catalan products such as cava. While the Popular Party lost power in 2004 they were still able to force the modification of a Catalan Statute of Autonomy in the Spanish parliament and then even after the modified statute passed they challenged it in the constitutional court. 4

The result of the court’s decision that the statute required further modification combined with the current economic crisis has led to a spike in support for independence. On 11 th September 1.5million people turned out for a Catalan independence rally in Barcelona showing the level of support for independence. 5

1 Cameron, David and Salmond, Alex, ‘Agreement between the United Kingdom Government and the Scottish Government on a referendum on independence for Scotland’, Number 10, 15 October 2012, http://www.number10.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Agreement-final-for-signing.pdf

2 ‘Towards autonomy: the Commonwealth of Catalonia, 1914-1925’, Generalitat de Catalunya, http://www.gencat.cat/generalitat/eng/guia/antecedents/antecedents13.htm

3 Bollier, Sam, ‘Catalans press for secession from Spain’, Al Jazeera, 30 September 2012, http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2012/09/201292913514639254.html

4 Guibernau, Montserrat, ‘The rise of secessionism in Catalonia has emerged out of the will to decide the region’s political destiny as a nation’, London School of Economics and Political Science, European Politics and Policy, 29 May 2012, http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/europpblog/2012/05/29/catalonia-secession/

5 ‘Huge turnout for Catalan independence rally’, BBC News, 11 September 2011, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-19564640
