Major League Baseball (MLB), often referred to as “America’s pastime,” is unlike some other sports because it largely disallowing the use of instant replay to determine whether an umpire’s call was correct. Unlike American football—which allows videos of any play to be reviewed and, potentially, for officials’ calls to be reversed—baseball uses instant replay only for “boundary calls” involving potential home runs (in questions of whether a struck ball was a home run or a foul, or in situations where it’s unclear whether a fan interfered with a potential home run). Though the decision to adopt this limited degree of instant replay was a watershed in baseball history, many are calling for the sport to embrace instant replay more thoroughly by permitting it in a wider variety of situations. It has been reported that MLB officials are considering this expansion for the coming season. [1]

Though the push for instant replay has existed for years and seems to grow stronger whenever there is a high-profile mistake by an umpire, it reached unprecedented intensity after a notorious blown call in June 2010. Detroit Tigers pitcher Armando Galarraga was one out away from a perfect game—among the rarest and most revered accomplishments in baseball—against the Cleveland Indians when the umpire incorrectly ruled a runner safe at first base. Video footage showed beyond any doubt that the umpire blew the call and that Galarraga had been wrongly deprived of a place in baseball history.

Instant replay advocates differ in how they believe the sport should adopt the practice—for example, whether it should be limited to certain types of plays, or whether there should be a time limit. Though these are important questions, many arguments in this debate do not hinge on the specific mechanics of the instant replay used.

[1] Ben Walker, “MLB Leaning Toward Expanding Instant Replay For 2012,” Associated Press, April 14, 2011, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/14/mlb-expanding-instant-replay-2012_n_849274.html .
