War creates unexpected alliances, and the war on terrorism gave a good opportunity for growing closeness between the United States and Russia. For the first time, a chance existed to forge deep strategic, economic, and cultural ties between these former enemies. And for the first time since the end of World War II, Russia and the United States have a common enemy: international terrorism. Both countries are interested in the reduction of nuclear weapons and in making each other’s military policies transparent. The USA and newly capitalist Russia will also benefit greatly from broader economic cooperation.

Expressions of common interest have included agreements in 2002 and 2009 on cutting nuclear arsenals deeply, cooperation in dealing with Iran's own nuclear programme, and improved relations under Presidents Medvedev and Obama from 2009 onwards. Yet alongside these Russia's suspicions of America have increased as NATO expanded, the US withdrew from the 1972 Anti-Missile Treaty, NATO intervened to support Kosovan independence, American wars in Iraq and Afghanistan continued, and political upheavals in former Soviet states such as Ukraine and Kirgizstan threatened Russia's neighbourhood policy. At the same time, Russia's return to authoritarian rule under Putin, with a brief interlude under Medvedev, worries the United States, many claimed their worries are confirmed by Russian intervention in pro-American Georgia in 2008 and by the expulsion of a spying ring from the United States in 2010.

In response to this decline in relations at the end of George W. Bush’s Presidency Barak Obama launched a reset of relations. The current Russian President Dmitry Medvedev although often seen as being subordinate to Putin, now the Prime Minister, is also seen as someone that the west can do business with. Russia however in 2001 along with China it was a founding member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. [1] Thus, Russian-American relations are much more complicated under the surface than they seem to be ostensibly.

[1] Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), Global Security,
http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/int/sco.htm accessed 20/04/11
