Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation is a multinational media corporation with interests in books, cable and satellite television, films, magazines, newspapers and websites. It is influential around the world and in its portfolio News Corporation includes very influential channels and publications. Fox News is perhaps the best known of these for its right wing perspective in the United States while in the UK the Sun, a tabloid newspaper, claimed to have won the 1992 election for John Major proclaiming it was ‘The Sun wot won it’. [1] As a result of this perception of influence politicians from around the world have wooed Rupert Murdoch in the hope that he will have his media organisations support their party in elections.

News Corporation has been involved in an on-going scandal about hacking into the phones of celebrities, politicians and other people who were in the news in order to obtain stories which initially came to light in 2006 when Clive Goodman the News of the World Royal editor and Glen Mulcaire, a private investigator were arrested. However despite it coming out that numerous public figures were hacked the allegations were not followed up. However in 2011 with new investigations and revelations of much more extensive phone hacking in rival newspapers such as the Guardian News International accepted that it was in some cases liable for breaches of privacy and offered an unreserved apology. [2] The Leveson Inquiry was launched on 13 July into the role of the press and police in the phone hacking scandal and the regulation of the press. [3] At the same time the Commons committee on Culture, Media and Sport was investigating whether the committee had been misled by witnesses during the phone hacking scandal. It published its conclusions on 1 st May 2012.

Behind this question is both a general question of whether Murdoch is a fit person to be running such a large and influential media conglomerate around the world or whether he has been misusing that power and a more local context within the UK. In the UK the Broadcasting acts of 1990 and of 1996 charges upon Ofcom, the media and communications watchdog, the duty to distribute broadcasting licences and says Ofcom “shall not grant a licence to any person unless they are satisfied that he is a fit and proper person to hold it”. [4] However the broadcasting acts do not define exactly what is ‘fit and proper’ but the actions of controlling directors and shareholders are taken into account; as such Murdoch could threaten the ability of the companies he controls to be considered fit. [5]

Read and watch 'Judge grills Murdoch: the uses of transparency' on Free Speech Debate

[1] Curtice, J., ‘Was it the Sun wot won it again? The influence of newspapers in the 1997 election campaign’, Centre for Research into Elections and Social Trends, Working Paper No. 75, September 1999, p.2

[2] Robinson, James, ‘News of the World phone hacking victims get apology from Murdoch’, The Guardian, 9 April 2011.

[3] ‘Background’, The Leveson Inquiry.

[4] UK Parliament, ‘Broadcasting Act 1996’, Legislation.gov.uk.

[5] Micova, Sally Broughton, ‘So is Sky a ‘Fit and Proper Person’ to hold Broadcasting License?’, blogs.lse.ac.uk, 22 November 2011.
