Guinea-Bissau is the fifth poorest nation state in the world. While farming and fishing are the most prominent legal trades, the illicit drugs business is the most profitable 1. Having gained independence from Portugal in 1974, Guinea-Bissau has witnessed almost constant instability. The civil war in 1999 was costly to the state’s infrastructure and human development. While there are democratic elections, no president has been able to finish their first term due to regular military coups. The most recent coup in 2012 had particular ramifications for the drug trade, which was able to thrive under new levels of instability 2. It’s geographical position and its national language of Portuguese, which is similar to Spanish, has made it an ideal location as a ‘warehouse’ for South American cartels and gangs. Due to the increased corruption and limited reach of the authorities, the nation state has been labelled as Africa’s first ‘Narco-State’ 3.

Meanwhile, the American drug war continues in an effort to halt the illicit business globally. The ‘war’ has its roots in the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, a conglomeration of previous treaties restricting illicit substances, which broadened the scope of illicit substances and encouraged international co-operation through the United Nations. President Nixon declared a ‘war on drugs’ in 1971, believing the drug trade to be a blight on modern society. In an effort to reduce the availability of drugs on the street, the US has looked further afield to prevent drugs from reaching Western markets. The next republican president, Ronald Regan, made the war on drugs a matter of national security and militarised the issue.

The US offers assistance to countries involved in the drug war, generally in the form of enforcement, eradication of crops and interdiction. In Columbia, for example, the US has provided $10 billion in military and development aid to the government in order to prevent production and eradicate the cartels and revolutionaries (FARC) who use the drugs for profit 4. Opinions on the “war” have become increasingly polarised in recent years, but the USA has continued this policy. This debate analyses whether Guinea-Bissau should join the US’ war on drugs.

1) BBC, ‘Guinea-Bissau drug trade ‘rises since coup’, 31 June 2012

2) Ibid

3) Vulliamy,E. ‘How a tiny West African country became the world’s first narco state’, The Guardian, 9 March 2008

4) Acevedo,B. ‘Ten Years of Plan Colombia: An Analytical Assessment’, The Beckley Foundation Drug Policy Programme, September 2008
