From its genesis, African nations have been involved in the ICC structure – the first ratifying nation was Senegal, and the ICC has much African involvement, including five African judges and the current prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda.

However, all the indictments at the ICC have been for Africans in cases involving African nations – almost all of which on states that voluntarily referred the cases to the court. Three African situations were not referred by a country – the Sudan and Libya cases were referred by the UN Security Council, and the situation following the post-election violence in Kenya in 2008-09 by the Prosecutor. The Kenyan trials are ongoing, the Libyan inductees are being tried in Libya, and the Sudanese inductees are, in the main, on the run.

The Kenya case was raised when the Office of the Prosecutor (OTP) used its power in the Rome Statute, which Kenya signed and ratified, to launch a case. This followed the unwillingness of Kenyan domestic authorities to prosecute those individuals deemed most responsible for orchestrating the violence after the disputed 2008 Presidential election, in which 1,000 people were killed.

Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto, two prominent Kenyan politicians, were indicted, appeared voluntarily, and had their charges confirmed in 2012. Kenyatta is accused of using a banned gang to keep power for one party at all costs, while Ruto is accused of ethnically cleansing ethnic groups seen as supportive of another candidate from certain areas. However, following their election as president and deputy president of Kenya respectively earlier in 2013, the African Union moved towards taking a position hostile to the ICC. The Ruto and Kenyatta trials are the unique - the first leaders selected by generally free and fair elections to be tried by the ICC.

This case has brought to a head the question of the membership of African states in the ICC. Kenya’s parliament has voted in favour of withdrawing from the ICC. Kenya however has not yet actually decided to declare its intention to withdraw to the UN which would be necessary to withdraw. Once a state has stated its intention to withdraw it takes a year to take effect. [1] If Kenya were to leave it would be the first state party to do so.

[1] Smith, David, ‘Kenyan MPs vote to quit international criminal court’, theguardian.com, 5 September 2013, http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/05/kenya-quit-international-criminal-court
