Government transparency, the idea that government should be open about what it is doing with its citizens, has been around since the enlightenment when parliaments began to be more powerful than kings. We usually consider that governmental transparency is a part of good governance in a democracy. This is in part because we consider information to be a public good. [1] Every citizen should have the ability to find out what their government is doing on their behalf. In theory this really should apply to everything the government does; from transparency in what the government does with rubbish, through how elections are fought and lobbying processes, right up to military. Clearly it would be unreasonable if national security were to be excluded where all the rest of government has to be more transparent.

Unfortunately there have always been snags when it comes to national security and transparency. Being transparent means letting everyone know about something, it is then clearly impossible to restrict knowledge simply to the citizens of one particular nation, so transparency means transparency with everyone else’s citizens too. In areas like rubbish collection this does not matter, but in national security it does. As a result the state often claims ‘national security’ as a reason for why something has to remain secret. This means that while the rest of government has been opening up as a result of freedom of information laws [2] these laws tend to exempt information that “is required for the purpose of safeguarding national security” or if disclosure would prejudice defence or “the capability, effectiveness or security of any relevant forces.” [3]

Yet it is becoming more difficult to keep secrets, to the point that it has been suggested that there will be no more secrets within 15 years. [4] The internet changes this relationship fundamentally. It provides immense communication and data advantages that security services can take advantage of. But at the same time it means that others are likely to be able to obtain information the government wants to keep secret. Not engaging in transparency might therefore simply limit access to those who don’t have the knowledge and capabilities to engage in the hacking necessary to gain access to it. The internet has also changed the realm of whistleblowing. WikiLeaks has shown that information that the government considered to be part of its security interest can, and will, be leaked and often much of what is being considered secret cannot be justified on national security grounds.

This will not stop the state trying. Conflict in particular breeds secrecy and the latest conflict western democracies are involved in, the war on terrorism, is no different. There being some kind of enemy is exactly what the government needs to justify secrecy. The question then that this debate explores is how justified it is to not be transparent in the realm of security.

[1] Stiglitz, Joseph, ‘Transparency in Government’, in Roumeen Islam, The right to tell: the roll of the mass media in economic development, World Bank Publications, 2002, p.28

[2] See the debatabase debate ‘ This House believes that there should be a presumption in favour of publication for information held by public bodies ’

[3] Freedom of Information Act 2000, 2000 Chapter 36, legislation.gov.uk, 30 November 2000, chapter 24 and 26

[4] National Security Forum, No More Secrets, American Bar Association, March 2011, p.3
