The case: Teaching creationism in US schools

On April 11 2012, Tennessee passed a law that will protect teachers who choose to explore the merits of creationism alongside theories of evolution in public school science classes. Governor Bill Haslam claimed that the legislation would not change scientific standards in schools and refused to sign the bill. However, he refused to veto it either, so the bill became law. Tennessee thus became the second US state to enact such legislation, following the “academic freedom” law of Louisiana in 2008. It purports to support teachers wanting to “help students understand, analyse, critique and review in an objective manner the scientific strengths and scientific weaknesses of existing scientific theories”.

Its scope is not limited to evolution, as global warming and human cloning are also open to critique, though. These three theories are widely accepted in terms of scientific merit. Critics named the bill the “Monkey Bill” after Tennessee’s 1925 “Scopes Monkey Trial”’, in which John Scopes was convicted under state law for teaching evolution and later exonerated on appeal. The law has attracted criticism, and some fear that it will inspire other states to pass similar bills in addition to acting as a backwards move in the fight to improve science and maths education in the US; others claim it violates the principle of the separation of church and state. Its supporters believe that it encourages healthy scepticism among students and that “critical thinking and analysis fosters good science”.

Casey Selwyn’s opinion

While the principles of academic freedom and critical thinking are of vital importance in fostering good science and education policy, I do not believe this Tennessee bill encourages these principles. Firstly, Tennessee undermined its own free speech credibility in education policy when that state’s House Education Committee passed a “Don’t Say Gay” bill on 18 April 2012, which prevented teachers from discussing homosexuality. Secondly, despite a provision in this law that claims that it does not “promote any religious or non-religious doctrine”, it clearly provides space for a religious creationist agenda.

While scientific principles uphold free speech to the highest standard in the practice of rigorous theory testing and the questioning of unproven facts, providing space in curriculum for children that promotes discredited theories while not truly subjecting them to rigorous scientific analysis provides them with a distorted view of facts versus fiction. So, while critical analysis does foster good science and is necessary to uphold principles of free speech, it seems that an “alternative”, an unchallengeable defence of creationism seems to be a cover for the promotion of ideology over science, even while it is being presented as an example of free speech that should be protected. If parents want to teach their kids about creationism, or the church does, that is absolutely acceptable, but to promote it as science in a secular public school setting is inappropriate. Otherwise it seems to violate first amendment principles of freedom of religion, as demonstrated by the 1987 supreme court ruling that requiring creation science to be taught alongside evolution is schools is unconstitutional.

- Casey Selwyn

Note for anyone reading the arguments: Debatabase already has a debate on the merits of teaching creationism in schools . There is also a debate on evolution vs creationism so this debate does not discuss the evidence for and against evolution. This debate will stick to the question of whether schools should allow teachers freedom in the classroom to teach creationism if they wish alongside or against evolution.

Read Teaching creationism in US schools and other case studies at Free Speech Debate
