During the Cold War Era, the United States vastly expanded its military capacity; today, the US military vastly outstrips any other military in the world. For the majority of its existence, the American public has favored an isolationist outlook for foreign policy; during the lead-up to World War I, armaments manufacturers were referred to as “merchants of death.” However, the public’s viewpoint dramatically shifted in the second half of the twentieth century due to the perceived threat of Communism and nuclear war. Since the end of World War II, the US military has intervened in many conflicts where its claims that the opposition posed a threat to US security have been somewhat dubious- these interventions vary significantly in their level of success. In preparing for the debate, both sides will want to have a general understanding of the major incidences of US intervention in the post-WWII era. Interventions after the end of the Cold War will of be greater significance because the US’s foreign policy shifted significantly at that time to adjust to a multi-polar world.

Debaters may wish to break the debate into two basic categories; morality and pragmatism. On the first issue, debaters should consider whether US unilateral military force could be just. Within the category of pragmatism, debaters may further divide the debate into immediate effectiveness and possible alternatives. Effectiveness is paramount to the debate, but is a difficult area to evaluate because it is impossible to know what “would” have happened in any particular case if the US had not intervened. Consideration of possible alternatives (or lack thereof) is not essential to the debate, but can add substance to both sides. While the Pro may simply take a normative stance and argue that US hegemonic power is detrimental, it will be in a much stronger position if it can demonstrate that there is a preferable alternative. Conversely, the Opp may want to explain why there are no viable alternatives, and why the lack of alternative world police options justifies US military dominance.
