The exchange of personal sexual services for economic rewards has a long history. It is important to distinguish different kinds of markets in sexual services in order to determine the appropriate societal response. For example, markets in sexual services that involve coerced sex, children, fraud and deception, and, in general, non-consensual and egregiously exploitative sexual or labor practices, are immoral and should be restricted. Theorists often use the terms “human trafficking,” “sex trafficking,” or “sexual slavery” to describe such practices, and the service providers in these practices have the status of a victim or slave.

There are markets in sexual services that do not appear to involve forced labor or sex, and in which the workers seem reasonably well compensated. Debates over prostitution often focus on the issue of whether genuinely voluntary markets can exist or whether markets in sexual services are inherently coercive, oppressive, and harmful to the individuals who participate, as well as to non-involved third parties.

Prostitutes are highly stigmatized for the work they do, and those who condemn this work believe that it is shameful and immoral, and has no place in a just social order. Others believe it is a necessary evil, in that if men (primarily) could not satisfy their sexual urges through some form of commoditized sexual service, these urges would find a more socially disruptive outlet. Some feminists argue that prostitution is a relic from older patriarchal societies in which men’s access to the bodies of subordinates was a privilege and expression of men’s social power. Many contemporary “sex workers” (a term coined by prostitutes’ rights activists) report that their clients have various motives, but primarily to seek relief from loneliness or to have uncomplicated sex. These sex workers believe that they are providing a valuable and morally permissible service to their clients and, by earning a living doing valuable work, they are making a contribution to their societies. In short, women (and men) who offer their labor in various types of sex trades believe that the stigma that attaches to them and their work is unfair and undeserved.

The appropriate societal response to human trafficking and slavery is abolition. The abolitionist approach criminalizes only the activities of the client and others who profit from sex trafficking, but not the provider of sexual services. Providers are treated as victims whom others exploit by luring them into sex trades. For sex markets not involving forced labor or sex, there are three standard approaches: prohibition, legalisation, and decriminalisation. The prohibitionist approach criminalizes the activities of the provider, client, and other persons who profit from sex market transactions. The legalization approach tolerates sex markets and businesses, but restricts them in ways that are specific to this industry. Regulations may include mandatory STD testing or condom use, zoning restrictions, special licencing requirements for businesses, government registration of workers, restrictions on advertising, and minimum age restrictions for providers and customers. The decriminalization approach seeks to remove both criminal and special regulatory restrictions and to regulate markets in sex in ways that are common for non-sex businesses.

The abolitionist approach collapses sex trafficking and prostitution together, as proponents generally believe that few workers enter sex markets voluntarily, and those who do are not acting in their best interest. The decriminalization approach typically recognizes the need for some special regulation (at least those appropriate to adult businesses, such as liquor stores), but proponents often oppose the regulatory schemes currently in use (especially, registration and mandatory health exams for workers). For the sake of argument, this debate assumes that some service providers enter sex markets voluntarily and with a rational assessment of their interests, and that some special regulation is necessary even if we have not yet come up with the best scheme. Therefore this debate will focus on legalization verses prohibition.
