In its preamble, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court explicitly stated that its objectives were not limited to investigating and punishing those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and other crimes of aggression. “Determined to put an end to impunity for the perpetrators of these crimes and thus to contribute to the prevention of such crimes” [1] , the States Parties to the Statute clearly envisaged the Court’s punitive powers to have at least some deterrent effect.

In one obvious sense, successful prosecution of criminals prevents them from committing crimes during the term of their imprisonment. However, the Court’s power to prosecute perpetrators can be conceived as having potential deterrent effects that are specific or general. If a period of imprisonment already imposed on an individual has the effect of deterring that same person from committing any further crimes, this would be a case of quite specific deterrence. But when this more limited deterrence also influences the potential for many others to commit similar crimes, deterrence begins to operate in the much more general sense expressed in the Rome Statute.

In this general sense, a minimal level of deterrence would be expected to depend on widely publicizing the Court’s jurisdictional authority, past and present investigations and successful prosecutions. Other attempts at more specific deterrence have been evident in occasional warnings issued by the ICC Prosecutor. As the ICC functions as a court of ‘last resort’, it only begins proceedings when national or regional authorities have failed to take appropriate action. Therefore, while the Prosecutor may sometimes attempt to directly deter potential crimes by issuing warnings addressed at those already suspected of committing crimes, warnings might also be targeted towards the local authorities. An example of this approach occurred in the Prosecutor’s press release on 28 January 2013, urging Malian authorities to “put an immediate stop to the alleged abuses” by Malian forces. [2]

One of the difficulties in this debate centres on the question of the ICC’s potential to deter would-be criminals i. e. those who may otherwise have been influenced to join or collaborate with militia groups whose members have been committing atrocities with impunity. For practical reasons the ICC has intentionally sought to restrict its prosecutions to those “most responsible” for the crimes committed. This makes it difficult to gather evidence for or against propositions about the number of persons who may have considered participating in such criminal acts but were ultimately deterred by the threat of ICC prosecution.

[1] Rome Statute of ICC

[2] Statement by ICC Prosecutor concerning Mali
