The border between North and South Korea is the most heavily fortified in the world. Officially, the Korean War has never ended and the two countries have maintained merely a nervous coexistence since the end of formal hostilities in 1953. Both sides maintain enormous armies and have mandatory national service. It is worth noting that the forms of national service differ enormously; although 22 months [1] for virtually all men in the South may seem long, it pales into insignificance with the 10 years in the North. Typically around the world where there is national service 18 months is standard increasing to two years in some countries.

There has been a discernible generational shift in attitudes towards national service in recent years most obviously demonstrated by the efforts of celebrities and the sons of senior politicians and business leaders to avoid the draft. The lengths to which some will go are extraordinary, for example Shin Dong-Hyun, a hip-hop artist better known as MC Dong pulled out his own, healthy, teeth in an effort to fail the physical exam [2] . More common methods are either the mundane such as drinking too much coffee to increase blood pressure before the medical or the rather more extreme such as changing nationality as was the case with singer Yoo Seung-Jun. Yoo had emigrated to the US as a child with his family but repeatedly said that he would complete his national service. Just before he was due to be conscripted in 2002, however, he adopted naturalised American citizenship, making him exempt. The public outcry was huge and led the government to ban him from performing on the peninsula.

Opinion is divided on the matter with many accepting that celebrities need to be in the public eye constantly otherwise they quickly fade from public memory and that they probably have only until they are about thirty, the cut off point for performing national service, before their career is over. Others take the attitude that celebrities are simply trying to use their status to avoid doing something that nobody else really wants to do either.

Some celebrities such as the singer Rain have made a point of performing their duty and it makes for a major news story when they enrol and start basic training. In Rain’s case one British Newspaper went so far as to describe him as “South Korea’s Modern-Day Elvis” [3] in reference to Elvis Presley’s being drafted in 1957.

The fact that sportsmen, like entertainers, face particular challenges in taking a two year break from their careers at an age when they are at the height of their powers is recognised by the South Korean government. Athletes who win an Olympic gold, or a similar achievement, are given an exemption from service. No such provision applies for entertainers. Although there was international coverage of Rain’s entering the army, it will be interesting to see whether the hundreds of fans who turned up to bid farewell to the K-Pop idol on his first day in uniform will be back at the barracks gates when he completes his service in two years’ time.

[1] Actually, 21 months in the army, 23 months in the navy and 24 months in the air force

[2] Yonhap News , 13 September 2010

[3] The Guardian, 12 October 2011
