This topic asks debaters to question the value of democracy as opposed to other systems, and whether democracy is so important that it ought to be required. Although hypothetically the motion could be interpreted as a government imposing democracy on its own country, recent history points to what is probably a more reasonable interpretation: whether governments ought to impose democracy on other nations. The use of the verb "impose" suggests that such nations would be at least somewhat opposed to this action; Affirmatives might be able to argue that the resolution implies that the imposition is successful, but absent a strong justification for this interpretation, it would not be difficult for a Negative to claim abuse.

What exactly constitutes democracy is quite controversial. At the most basic level, a democratic system is one in which the government is formed by the people. Generally this is taken to imply universal suffrage. However, a government could also be formed by the people through consensus, and still qualify as a democratic government. Furthermore, most democratic theorists argue that there is more to democracy than the electoral system: democracy is predicated on the notion that every individual has worth, and thus in order for a government to be democratic it must protect its people's rights. Consequently, perhaps the first thing a debater ought to do is determine exactly what type of democracy they advocate imposing.

In addition, it is very important to understand the context in which this motion has been raised. As of 2010, according to the Democracy Index, an index compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit, 26 nations are classified as full democracies, 53 as flawed democracies, and 32 as hybrid regimes, leaving 56 authoritarian regimes. Many of the countries which are not full democracies are countries in which other nations have intervened and attempted to establish democracy: for example, Iraq and Afghanistan. On the other hand, some of the full democracies were in fact subject to forced democratization, such as Japan and Germany post World War II. Examining why some impositions have been more successful than others is important to constructing cases on either side of this debate. It is also worth comparing them to the current youth movements in the Middle East, where pushes for democracy are occurring within nations such as Egypt and Libya.

Debaters should be sure to consider both theoretical arguments -- e.g. about the possible conflict with national sovereignty posed by imposition or the possibly contradictory notion of "imposed democracy" -- as well as more practical ones -- e.g. about whether imposing democracy is the most effective way to obtain it, or whether impositions generally violate rights. On the Affirmative side, debaters must defend both the value of democracy, and either the efficacy of imposing it, or absent solvency claims, the moral justification for attempting to do so. They should be sure to clarify -- at least among themselves-- whether they are arguing that nations have an obligation to impose democracy, and/or simply whether they would benefit from doing so (either in the sense of self-gain, or achieving some humanitarian objective). On the Negative side, it is possible to argue both that democracy should not be imposed, and/or that imposing it (either altogether, or in the way advocated by the Affirmative) leads to negative consequences. However, debaters should ensure they have a clear stance as to whether they concede that democracy is the most preferable state, or whether they are willing to defend other forms of government as having some legitimacy.
