Truth and reconciliation commissions use the principles of restorative justice and alternative dispute resolution to help post conflict states recover from pasts characterised by politically motivated crimes and human rights abuses.

The best known contemporary example of this process is the truth and reconciliation commission that operated in South Africa between 1995 and 1998. Under the chairmanship of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, individuals involved in the violence surround the apartheid regime were invited to confess what they had done. The commission addressed violent acts, human rights violations and politically motivated crimes committed by individuals on both sides of the conflict between the South African state and the liberation movement. Surviving victims and the relatives of dead victims were also given an opportunity to tell their story. Those who told what they did under apartheid were granted freedom from prosecution for their crimes (providing the Commission agreed that they were politically motivated); those who refused to testify remain liable to criminal prosecution.

Although South Africa is the best known example of such a Commission, others preceded it, particularly in post-dictatorship situations in Latin America (e.g. Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Guatemala, El Salvador) and Africa (e.g. Nigeria, Ghana). In many of these cases the commission's main task was truth-finding, but national reconciliation was usually at least part of the motivation behind setting them up.

More recently commissions with an explicit brief to pursue both truth and reconciliation have begun work in Sierra Leone, East Timor, Peru and Serbia and Montenegro. At the same time, truth and reconciliation work has been recently overshadowed by the development of both ad-hoc international criminal tribunals- such as the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia- and the International Criminal Court [i] . The later has begun to issue indictments for crimes against humanity related to a number of conflicts in Africa. These attempted prosecutions have been criticised for making it harder to reach negotiated end to wars, and refocused attention on the merits of truth and reconciliation processes.

[i] The International Criminal Court: Challenges to Achieving Justice in the 21 st Century. Pp 57-85. 2008, Ellis and Goldstone (eds), Idebate Press.
