The EU referendum taking place in the UK may not be fought on the UK’s place in the world but it is certainly one of the central issues. Before the end of 2017 the people of the UK will have the opportunity to decide whether their destiny remains within the European Union or outside of it, relegated to the margins as those pro-Europeans would see it or able to play a newly independent role in the world as the Eurosceptics would have it. With the decision point by the public so near at hand, it is clearly the time too lay out the arguments on both sides for whether the UK would be better off in or out in terms of foreign and global affairs.

The conventional wisdom is that British influence will diminish, or at best remain roughly where it is at the moment if the country were to exit the EU, however we cannot ignore the possibility that the newly freed UK could carve out an important new role for itself. The possibilities for a new role are potentially quite varied so the arguments in the debate will necessarily have to remain quite vague as, barring some unlikely expansion in resources, the government of the day will have to pick and choose its options.

So what are the possibilities for a British government outside of the EU trying to carve a new role:

1, It's the economy stupid. This is effectively the default option for those arguing that Britain will be better off out. Outside of the EU’s common market and trade barriers Britain is much freer to negotiate trade deals with countries that are growing faster. Britain can become a bit like a bigger version of Singapore or Hong Kong becoming more integrated into the global economy rather than Europe’s regional economy. This however while it may have economic advantages would likely not lead to much increase in influence simply prevent any loss.

2, Big Norway. Norway is known for its international arbitration and good offices as a mediator and for providing peacekeeping forces enabling the country to have greater weight in international affairs. The UK already regularly provides large numbers of peacekeepers however making the global promotion of peace the centrepiece of UK foreign and defence policy would seem an unlikely role for a country better known for taking part in wars than ending them, and one still wishing to maintain an independent nuclear deterrent.

3, Reinvigorating the Commonwealth. This is the most ambitious possible policy, and as such the most difficult to pull off. Back in the late 1960s and early 1970s Harold Wilson pulled the UK back from ‘east of Suez’ [1] and this attempt would to some extent reverse this decision. With the centre of power shifting to the Pacific this option would mean closer ties with Australia and India.

All three options require fair winds in areas outside of foreign policy making and international relations. This debate will make the assumption that Britain’s economy will not be severely affected by its leaving the EU so Britain remains as capable as before. It will also assume that a vote to leave the EU will not also result in the breakup of the UK, a possibility if Scotland in particular were to vote to stay. Finally it also assumes other capabilities remain the same, for example the UK will retain its nuclear deterrent.

When it comes to all three possibilities the downsides and the reasons for why it either won't work, or would work better from within the European Union are pretty similar thus ensuring a coherent counter narrative that the pro-Europeans will use when arguing to stay in.

[1] Longinotti, Edward, ‘’For God’s sake, act like Britain’ Lessons from the 1960s for British defence policy’, History and Policy, 9 September 2015, http://www.historyandpolicy.org/policy-papers/papers/for-gods-sake-act-like-britain-lessons-from-the-1960s-for-british-defence
