On the 27 th February 2014 soldiers seized the Crimean Parliament. They did not have insignia but raised a Russian flag above the building. [1] The Crimean Parliament then voted to dissolve the regional government and elected a new pro-Russian leader Sergey Aksyonov. [2] He promptly requested that Russia provide help to ensure “peace and calm” within the Crimea. [3]

Following the ousting in a revolution of pro-Russian Ukrainian President Yanukovych and the loss of influence this represented Russia has been happy to oblige. Russia already was engaged in a show of force with military exercises along Ukraine’s borders. It also already had troops at its Black Sea Fleet base in Crimea. Unmarked troops and helicopters, though believed to be Russian, occupied Sevastopol and other Crimean airports taking over the transport infrastructure. [4] In order to prevent a response from Ukraine Russian troops surrounded Ukrainian bases and demanded they surrender. Ukraine’s verbal response was tough with the Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk saying “This is not a threat: this is actually the declaration of war to my country”. Ukraine therefore clearly believes that Russia had no right to send forces into Crimea, a sovereign part of the country. However Ukraine has agreed with the calls for restraint, it has mobilised its army but has made no move to engage the Russians and has refrained from allowing its troops to use force in Crimea leading to tense but peaceful standoffs. [5] The endgame is integration of Crimea into Russia. A Referendum on the 16 th March showed that 97% of voters in the Crimea want to join the Russian Federation. [6] The final result is therefore that Crimea is lost to the Ukraine, but there being a result does not necessarily mean Russia’s actions were just and moral.

Crimea itself is a peninsula out from the south of Ukraine into the Black Sea. Crimea is strategic in large part because of the good harbours it has, something that Russia otherwise lacks. It was historically Russian having been taken from the Crimean Khanate in 1783. Historically in Russia it is notable for being the sight of heroic military action; the Crimean war against French and British invasion in 1854-5, and a nine month siege of Sevastopol by the Wehrmacht. A Century after the Crimean War in 1954 Khrushchev handed over the Crimea to Ukraine, the reasons are disputed, but as both were a part of the USSR it may well have simply been for convenience as there is a land bridge from Ukraine but not to Russia.

History and geography are not the only causes of tensions; it is culturally and ethnically more Russian than Ukrainian too. Crimea has an ethnic Russian majority with 60% of the population being Russians. 10-12% of the population is Crimean Tartars and firmly opposed to Russia as a result of having been deported by Stalin. The balance is mostly Ukrainian. [7] The language is Russian and as a result most people get their news from Russia. [8]

Russia has clear interests in Crimea and has basing rights for up to 25,000 troops in Sevastopol which is the main base for the Black Sea Fleet. These forces in Sevastopol both ensure that Russia is particularly concerned about the security of the peninsular and that it has the means to make its views felt. It cannot be surprising then that Russia, feeling its citizens and interests threatened in the province, acted using these forces that were to hand in Crimea.

[1] Salem, Harriet, Walker, Shaun, and Harding, Luke, ‘Crimean parliament seized by unknown pro-Russian gunmen’, theguardian.com, 27 February 2014

[2] ‘Crimean parliament sacks regional government, approves referendum’, RT.com, 27 February 2014

[3] ‘Russian senators vote to use stabilizing military forces on Ukrainian territory’, RT, 1 March 2014

[4] Fraser, Christian, and Kendall, Bridget, ‘Ukraine crisis: 'Russians' occupy Crimea airports’, BBC News, 28 February 2014

[5] Zinets, Natalia, and De Carboonnel, Alissa, ‘Ukraine mobilises after Putin’s ‘declaration of war’’, Reuters, 2 March 2014

[6] Hewitt, Gavin, ‘Crimean parliament formally applies to join Russia’, BBC News, 17 March 2014

[7] Varettoni, William, ‘Crimea’s Overlooked Instability’, The Washington Quarterly, Vol.34, No.3, Summer 2011, pp.87-99, p.89

[8] Ibid, p.91.
