On 9 December 1948, the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide 1. This is heralded as the first distinct milestone on the road to international protection of human rights. The CPPG outlines the international definition of genocide, re-affirms commitment to the universality of human rights as outlined by the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights 2 and, most importantly, the obligation of the international community to intervene when genocide is declared.

In the aftermath of the embarrassing lack of action in Rwanda during the 1994 genocide 3 and the deaths of 18 US Rangers in 1993 during their failed intervention in Somalia 4 the international community was in search of clarity on the issue of genocide and the justification for intervention. The Responsibility to Protect Doctrine 5 was the result of this international call- proposed by the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty (ICISS) which was created by Canada and headed by the Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans, and the UN Secretary General's Special Assistant, Mohammed Shahnoun. The Responsibility to Protect (R2P) proposed two things: (1) That all states have the obligation to protect their citizens and their basic human rights, and (2) That where there is a failure to do so, the international community has the obligation to intervene to fulfill this right.

When dealing with the use of force to protect human rights, the debate is about the use of military force such as troops for ground invasions or bombing campaigns to explicitly target one side of a conflict to protect the rights of another side. This is to happen in cases where human rights are abused or the abuse of human rights is wilfully ignored by states systematically, on a very wide-scale and with high human costs. This is applicable in cases such as genocide, ethnic cleansing and the arming of militias to systematically wipe out a people. Examples of where this would apply historically and currently are Rwanda 1994, Bosnia 1995, Kosovo 1998, Somalia 1993 and Darfur and the Democratic Republic of the Congo today.

1 United Nations. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. United Nations, n.d. Web. 7 Jun 2011. 2 United Nations. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1948. 3Power, Samantha. A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide. New York, NY: Perennial, 2007. Print. 4Power, Samantha. A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide. New York, NY: Perennial, 2007. Print. 5"International Coalition for the Responsibility to Protect." Responsibility to Protect. ICRtoP, n.d. Web. 7 Jun 2011.
