Drug companies like Glaxosmithkline (GSK) and Merck are amongst the most profitable companies in the world. Arguably the drugs they research and produce are among the most important products any company sells. Although the proposition could choose to discuss the advertising of non-prescription drugs, a better debate can be had over prescription drugs (drugs requiring a doctor’s authorization before a pharmacist can dispense them to a patient) because states across the world have taken very different positions on the issue. Only two countries currently allow the practice: the United States and New Zealand. However it has been considered elsewhere, including a proposal by the European Commission in 2001, which suggested limited direct-to-consumer advertising (DTCA), but which was rejected in 2003.

While the EU does not have a regulated system some of the countries have certain exemptions for advertising: In France, DTCA (Direct To Consumer Advertising) of non-prescription medicines is permissible only if purchasers are not reimbursed by the social security system. Moreover, disease awareness campaigns are considered legal only if such campaigns do not refer directly or indirectly to the product or therapeutic class. In Spain, DTCA is allowed only for medicines that treat minor symptoms. [1]

Outside the US, New Zealand, Bangladesh and South Korea allow limited DTC (Direct to Consumer) advertising, while in some other markets limited advertising has been permitted for certain vaccines. The most attention, however, has been on whether Europe will ever permit DTC — particularly as European regulators have often adapted a number of U.S. regulations for the region. [2]

The U.S. system dates from 1997 legislation and is administered by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). All adverts, which are predominantly television or print in form, must include a written (and voiced in the case of TV adverts) list of possible side effects and risks, as well as a phrase insisting consumers ask their doctors whether the drug is appropriate for them. They now account for a large proportion of the US advertising market and are blamed by some for the rapid increase in US health costs. Others defend advertising as a helpful tool for matching the right drugs to the patients that need them. Should we allow direct advertisement of the prescription drugs to consumers or should the products be advertised mainly to physicians, as is the practice in Europe?

[1] Pharmaceutical direct-to-consumer advertising in Europe, PF Pharmaceutical Field Online Feature, http://www.pharmafield.co.uk/features/2005/12/Pharmaceutical-direct-to-consumer-advertising-in-Europe , accessed 07/29/2011

[2] Jessop N., Will DTC Advertising appear in Europe ?, published 01/07/2011, http://pharmtech.findpharma.com/pharmtech/article/articleDetail.jsp?id=702161 , accessed 07/29/2011
