Korea was divided by the Allies following WWII in what was meant to be a temporary measure. It has previously been governed by Japan as part of their empire and Korean antipathy towards Japan continues to this day. The division of the peninsula effectively became permanent with the initiation of the Korean war in 1950. North Korea invaded the South in an act which would ultimately see forces from the USA, the UN, the People’s Republic of China and the Soviet Union all stationed on Korean soil. Although the fighting stopped with the signing of a ceasefire in 1953 although the countries remain technically at war. In the South, it is illegal [1] to even recognise the Northern regime as legitimate or to praise its leaders.

Historically Korea was referred to as ‘the Hermit Kingdom’ owing to its exclusion of foreigners and all things foreign. The North continues this tradition with a state founded on the concept of Juche, which roughly translates as ‘self-reliance’ and rejects the interference of other nations in their affairs. In reality the North is a communist dictatorship under the hereditary rule of Kim Jong Un.

In 1972 the first steps at reunification were taken – much to the surprise of the rest of the world – when the two parties issued a joint communique which stated that a peaceful reunification of the country was a long terms goal for both of them. However, there was little meaningful progress until 1990 when the prime ministers of the two countries met. In 2000 a joint agreement was finally announced. [2]

Different presidents of South Korea have taken very different approaches to the North with the current resident of the Blue House, Lee Myung-Bak, taking a more hawkish approach than that represented by the Sunshine Policy of his predecessor Rho Moo-Hyun.

In recent years the North has tended to alternate between sabre rattling and open hostility. Attacks on ships and even territory belonging to the South have been widely seen as brinkmanship in negotiations for aid.

Both countries have huge standing armies, although in the case of the North, this should not be interpreted as a sign of economic growth. In 1953 Korea was the poorest country in the world. The South is now the eleventh largest economy in the world while the North is heavily dependent on aid. Although the cost of reunifying the country is difficult to calculate as many figures given for the North are known to be inaccurate, experts agree that it would be considerable; possibly prohibitive [3] .

The geo-political challenges are also considerable as the US is a staunch supporter of the South and China remains the strongest ally of the North.

Because of the sheer scale of the task, it is important for proposition to be very clear on who This House refers to. In this instance it is defined as an international coalition, including South Korea, spearheaded by both China and the US.

[1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Act_(South_Korea)

[2] Kim Dae-jung, Kim Jong-il, ‘South-North Joint Declaration’, United States Institute of Peace, 15 June 2000

[3] Peter M. Beck Wall Street Journal January 4 2010
