The 2012 Republican campaign, many commentators agree, looks set to be one of the dramatic examples of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory in modern American political history. Obama should be a lame duck, incapable of getting any kind of positive messages across and struggling with an economy mired in recession. Although they’re very different personalities and campaigners Obama should – in theory – be in a similar position to Carter but looks closer to Clinton. Although the polls are not terribly strong for him, none of the Republican candidates have fired the public imagination. The pre-primary campaign has been typified by a sort of ‘anyone but Romney’ series of lurches between a range of candidates only to see them embroiled either in scandal or gaffs. Of the six candidates going into the Iowa caucus, only Ron Paul had a distinctive ideological position [i]

It’s difficult to see the party uniting behind any of the candidates and it appears to be suffering from symptoms similar to their fellow conservatives in their crushing defeat at the hands of Tony Blair in 1997. With the Tea Party movement demanding ideological purity from candidates but with little evidence that candidates would be likely to garner widespread support in the electorate as a whole.

In an election that should be a breeze for them, the weaknesses of the Republican party is widely seen as Obama’s strongest suit. Even Vice-President Joe Biden has made it explicit with his repeated comment, “Don’t judge me against the Almighty, judge me against the alternative” [ii] . The election currently looks set to disprove the old mantra of political strategy that oppositions don’t win elections, governments lose them. According to masses of data, including polling information and psephological history, Obama should be on course to lose but the Republicans give the distinct impression of doing their level best to keep him in office. That’s certainly not to say that Obama is out of the woods or that whoever secures the Republican nomination has no chance but the party is clearly split between social and monetary conservatives. Further, the party’s leadership bears little resemblance to its white, working class base. Santorum is the only candidate in the running with any working class credentials at all.

By contrast the socially conservative and evangelical Christian components of the party have not only become the leading voice in the party but have consistently spoken to and delivered states, such as Kansas, which demographically should be blue. With such clout it seems only sensible that candidates should focus on their concerns and speak on their behalf. All candidates, in both parties, address their base during the primaries before returning to a broader, more consensual approach. Many supporters of the party believe that the socially conservative approach - opposing the liberal consensus of much of the media – is not only morally correct but makes good political sense in a nation with genuine social difficulties and all too few solutions to them.

[i] BBC News. “Iowa Caucus: Mitt Romney and Ron Paul Nearly Neck and Neck.” December 31 2001.

[ii] Mark Mardell. “Is Obama Doomed in 2012.” BBC News.
