The number of students going into higher education after finishing compulsory education has in recent years grown astronomically with many institutions accepting more students from poorer backgrounds than ever before. Such increases are generally welcomed, both by governments and by their citizens, who hope that both their society and their children will benefit greatly from having a degree, but it naturally costs a great deal of money to fund. The question of who should pay for Higher Education, and how, is an issue which is relevant to every country. In some, such as France, Germany and Britain, up to the early 1990s, the state pays tuition and living costs through grants to individual students, although there may be an element of means testing. In others, such as the USA, much of the cost of education is placed upon individual students, who pay for Higher Education through part-time work, parental contributions and borrowing against their future income. The entire UK changed in 1998 to a system which made all students pay a contribution towards their education through tuition fees, with cheap loans through a government program which are repaid when graduates are in employment; however in 2001 Scotland, through its devolved parliament, reverted back to a state backed grant system. The rate students were expected to pay under the new loan system was capped to ensure students from poorer backgrounds could still get an education if they had the ability. The fee cap will have been raised greatly, in England, from 2012 onwards. The idea of a graduate tax has been debated in many countries, and was done so in the UK, and particularly in England before the fee cap raise, but has been most notably put into effect in Australia where since the early 1990s graduates have paid an income-tax supplement related to their earnings as a means of repaying part of the cost of their university grants. The Graduate tax proposed in the UK by Liberal Democrat Vince Cable in 2010 would work by getting students to pay for their education through taxation once they begin work, the amount paid would depend upon what they are earnings whereas in the current loan system a fixed amount is always paid back as soon as the graduate is working. Universities would receive funding entirely from the state who will retrieve the money invested in universities back through the tax system.

The proposition proposes that the whole of the UK should switch from a loan based tuition fee system to a graduate tax whereby all students will pay an extra tax over a set period of time, when in full-time employment, alongside income tax to pay for their education.
