A key debate being raised within urban studies internationally includes the power land titling can have to reduce poverty and empower individuals [1] . Formal land titles are defined as legal rights attached to property by the state; they represent a means of legal land tenure [2] . The possession of land titles is suggested to put individuals on the map: enabling the ability to demand services and rights, and providing an opportunity to enter markets and invest. However, what are the real benefits of granting land titles; and what happens when individuals are included under persisting inequalities?

The provision of land titling has recently shifted to include women. In promoting the rights of women, action is being taken to grant land titles to women, globally [3] . Two programme streams have been introduced - joint-titling, whereby the land title indicates shared ownership between partners, and female ownership, meaning women can be recognised as the legal title holder. Across Africa data shows 67% of countries have equal gender property rights, while no countries have equal inheritance rights [4] .

This debate focuses on what type of ‘empowerment’ is provided for women through formal land titles in the African context, and the extent changing the rules of land tenure should be used as a means of ‘empowerment’. The focus is placed on the power of the title deed, having ones name formally recognised as owner/co-owner, which may be gained through payment, inheritance and/or land transfers. As programmes continue to be rolled out is the provision of land titles can land titles enable women to become equal citizens; justify rights; and enable social security?

[1] Three groups may be identified: structuralists, legalists, and neo-liberalists (see AlSayyad, 2004). The debates are currently being raised within African nations, however, the status of women within the discourses requires greater consideration.

[2] For definitions on land tenure, and its importance, see the FAO.

[3] Worldwide projects have been implemented with mixed success i.e. in Brazil, Peru, Buenos Aires, India, Kenya, Rwanda and more. Organisations include UN, World Bank, and OXFAM.

[4] United Nations, 2011.
