Cluster bombs are weapons that were first developed by the Germans for use in World War 2 and are weapons that have seen continued use in subsequent conflicts such as Vietnam and the first Gulf War. Cluster bombs are usually dropped from planes, when they hit the ground the impact causes the bomb to explode and release several smaller bombs (or “bomblets”) that then go on to explode as well, dealing damage in a much wider radius than an average bomb. Due to the large number of small bombs that are released on impact, cluster bombs are prone to causing significant collateral damage and often harm civilians, either on impact or because many of the smaller bombs fail to explode and do so later when uncovered by civilians who do not know about the dangers.

While there have been no international trials specifically about the use of cluster munitions one of the crimes for which Milan Martic was convicted in 2007 by The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was the use of an M-87 Orkan rocket which contains 420 pellets. The ICTY considered this to be an “indiscriminate weapon” which was being used in “densely populated civilian areas, such as Zagreb, will result in the infliction of sever casualties.” So convicted Martic for attacks on civilians and inhumane acts – both crimes against humanity. [1]

Currently, eighty-four countries have ratified The Convention on Cluster Munitions banning the use of cluster weaponry in warfare (as well as stockpiling, production and transfer of the munition), claiming their indiscriminate nature makes them similar to land mines in this regard. A further 29 have signed the treaty but not ratified. [2] However, other nations such as the United States have failed to join this treaty, claiming that cluster bombs are needed for modern warfare strategies.

The proponents of cluster bombs argue that the collateral damage they cause is outweighed by the lives that are saved because the side using them is able to bring a war to a speedy conclusion.

From a debate perspective, the motion can be set in a general context, not specifying the U.S. however, without arguments based around opinions of the U.S. internationally the debate lacks the content to go down an eight speech table.

[1] ‘Prosecutor v. Milan Martic (Judgement)’, International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), 12 June 2007, http://www.refworld.org/cgi-bin/texis/vtx/rwmain?docid=469de5652 , Pp.166, 169

[2] ‘Convention Status’, Convention on Cluster Munitions, accessed 31/3/2014, http://www.clusterconvention.org/the-convention/convention-status/
