The abolishment of nuclear weapons would constitute the complete and multi-lateral disarmament of all current nuclear weapons and material earmarked specifically for their development or production.

Nuclear weapons first dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, forever changed the face of war, and the half-century of Cold War which followed was dominated, above all, by the threat of nuclear destruction. Both superpowers raced to produce a greater arsenal than their opponents, leading to the point where they had the ability to destroy the world several times over. Added to the direct destructive power of the weapons was the consensus growing among scientists from 1970s onwards that a major war would plunge the world into a ‘nuclear winter’, destroying life even in places that had escaped attack. This led to the concept of ‘Mutually Assured Destruction’, a stalemate in which both sides knew that the use of their weapons would lead to their own destruction as well as their enemies. The global situation has, however, changed substantially since the end of the Cold War. Nuclear Weapons have ceased to dominate world politics; however, the fear of proliferation – the spread of weapons of mass destruction to many more countries – is also on the rise. India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea are all now believed to be nuclear powers, and many fear that Iran will soon join them. Proponents focus on the total abolition of the world’s nuclear arsenals as a realistic and necessary goal to aim for. It will take time, as President Obama has recently argued “I'm not naive. This goal will not be reached quickly –- perhaps not in my lifetime.” The opposition is more pragmatic, not defending the weapons per se but insisting that they remain a necessary means to a peaceful end.

President Obama has moved the idea of nuclear disarmament up the international agenda. In Prague in 2009 he stated “So today, I state clearly and with conviction America's commitment to seek the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons.” [1] Obama followed up with a Nuclear Security Summit which sought to safeguard nuclear materials but did not much advance any attempt to abolish nuclear weapons. [2]

[1] Obama, Barack, ‘Remarks by President Barack Obama Hradcany Square Prague, Czech Republic’, The White House, 5 April 2009, http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/Remarks-By-President-Barack-Obama-In-Prague-As-Delivere

[2] Marcus, Jonathan, ‘Barack Obama’s nuclear summit of small victories’, BBC News, 13 April 2010, http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/8619015.stm
