Rapid, unplanned, urbanisation across Africa has been synthesised with the prevalence of slums. Slums are officially defined as a household lacking either durable housing, sufficient living space, access to safe water and sanitation, and security of tenure (UN-Habitat, 2007). However, across Africa the definition and recognition of slums remains political. Slums are recognised as unhealthy landscapes and geographies of neglect. Previous attempted solutions to slums have included slum upgrading schemes offering in-situ service provision and improvements, mass evictions, and recognising slum dwellers as secure owners including granting the right to build. In Sub-Saharan Africa’s attempt to meet the 7th Millennium Development Goal [1] - improving the lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers - relative reductions have been made in the percentage of urban slum dwellers. However, the share of urban slum dwellers in SSA is still higher than any other world region, at 62%, with the slum-dwellers experiencing a greater depth of deprivation (UN, 2012, p.50).

However, is the solution a matter of fixing supply or demand? This debate turns to two factors. Firstly, exploring what the slum dwellers needs are, and what solutions can enable just and inclusive cities to be maintained. Considering the diverse strategies of investments made into the housing sector what changes are felt; are needs met? Secondly, the role of urban governance - identified as a key factor in both the prevalence of slums and their subsequent future (UN-Habitat, 2007; etc). It needs to be understood how urban actors influence housing markets and the sustainability of outcomes. In a Marxist ideology, housing is the source of reproduction, sustaining the economy, and fundamentally needs to be provided by the state; however, are housing schemes introduced improving the lives of slum dwellers or are they being built as a result of other motives? As housing inequalities grow what intervention is needed? There remains a danger of assuming investing in housing will be the means to end all slums.

[1] MDG 7 is to ensure environmental sustainability.
