The Taliban first emerged in an organized form in 1994, from the confusion of twenty years of civil war in Afghanistan. They presented themselves as an incorruptible religious movement taking a stand against warlords. By 1996, they had taken control of most of the country and secured Kabul, the capital, setting up their version of a pure Islamic state. The group is known for its rigid interpretation of Islamic law, under which it publicly executed criminals and outlawed the education of women. Notwithstanding its popularity among many impoverished rural communities, the Taliban’s approach to law and governance, along with the form of Islam that they promote, is alien to the average Afghan.

The Taliban ruled until the U.S.-led invasion of 2001 drove them from power – the result of close links between senior members of the regime and the leaders of the al-Qaeda terror network, including Osama Bin Laden. The ousting of the Taliban was a key objective of the U.S. government’s response to the 9/11 attack.

Although the group has been out of power for several years, it remains a strong cultural force in the region, where it operates parallel governance structures aimed at undermining the U.S.-backed central government. Currently, Afghanistan is nominally led by President Hamid Karzai, but the resurgent Taliban controls important stretches of territory. The country’s relationship with the United States and NATO remains a key issue, as they still have more than 100,000 troops in the country working with local forces to fight the continuing Taliban insurgency. Complicating the situation is the high level of corruption fueled, in part, by cash from the illicit opium trade . This does not represent the core of the problem, however. The Taliban would exist with or without opium crops; the funds that they receive simply serve to entrench their position.

There is no doubt that solving such a controversial problem requires a complex understanding of the political situation. President Obama has said that a power-sharing deal that may include the Taliban is in the works. However, he maintains that such a deal should be approached with caution and will in no way compromise American values of freedom and justice. Even if the Taliban are not included, can Pakistan, where many of the Taliban base themselves, and Afghanistan be trusted? Members of Hamid Karzai’s family are allegedly connected to the illegal narcotics trade. Pakistan has been accused repeatedly of playing a double game with the United States and the Taliban. Speaking directly with Taliban leaders on an equal front can clear away much of the confusion caused in communication by Pak-Afghan mediators. It could also, hypothetically give the Taliban a false sense of victory so that they are appeased and consequently, curb their murderous rampage. A false sense of victory could also mean a rise in terror resulting from confidence in their cause. Would it be wise to share power with the Taliban?
