In many democracies, the legislature consists of two separate ‘chambers’ or ‘houses’. This practice is called ‘bicameralism’. Usually, the lower house is directly elected by the people. In the past, membership of the upper house was hereditary, like the House of Lords in the United Kingdom, which today still had hereditary seats, or Japan’s House of Peers, which until 1947 was hereditary. Nowadays the upper house is usually either appointed by another governing body, or indirectly elected.

An example of an appointed upper house is the Senate of Canada. In this system, each major area in Canada has 24 seats. Members are appointed by the Governor General (a largely ceremonial function) on the ‘advice’ the Prime Minister (so, practically the Prime Minister appoints the members) and remain in their seats until they reach the age of 75.

An example of an indirectly elected upper house is the Dutch ‘Eerste Kamer’. In this system, each province has an allotted number of seats based on their respective population sizes. Members for the seats are then chosen via election by the provincial legislatures and remain in their seats until the next provincial elections, after which the renewed provincial legislatures will hold a new election for the upper house.

This case argues that the upper house should be directly elected by the people, just as the lower house, but via a different voting system. An example of this is the United States Senate (upper house) vis-à-vis the United States House of Representatives (lower house). Whereas in the House of Representatives each State has seats apportioned according to their population size, in the Senate each State is represented by two Senators, regardless of their population size. Because the direct election system for both the lower and upper house can vary in different legislatures, I am not going to specify which exact voting system the upper house will be using – I only assume that it is a direct voting system different from the direct voting system for the lower house.

The upper house and lower house can also differ in the amount of legislative power they have. Usually, in so-called presidential systems, where the executive is directly elected, the upper house has equal legislative powers as the lower house. For example, the United States Senate is generally equal to, and in some special cases even more powerful than, the House of Representatives. In many parliamentary systems, where the executive is derived from the lower house, the upper house usually has less powers then the lower house. For example, the Senate of Canada, unlike the House of Canada, can’t force the Prime Minister to resign. The Dutch ‘Eerste Kamer’ can’t initiate legislation whereas the ‘Tweede Kamer’ can.

This case also makes no choice as to what the exact division of powers should be between the separate houses and focuses only on the question whether it should be directly elected by the people or not.
