The debt of the United states at the time of writing is approaching $15 Trillion by many measures and growing quickly (8 November 2011). However, that only covers national debt – the government’s debt – if all debts are included the figure increases to a massive $54 trillion. That requires a total annual interest payment of three trillion dollars.

The issue of debt is one that starkly divides decision makers between and within both major parties. National debt is a complicated issue and the United States is in an unusual, possibly unique, position in relation to its debt, as those other nations and institutions to whom the debt is owed simply cannot afford for the most powerful economy in the world to declare bankruptcy. In the case of many nations, their own currencies are pegged to the dollar, in the case of the Federal Reserve it would lose its purpose for existing and its source of revenue.

The reality is that if the US defaults on its debts then the whole world, not just the US, faces a problem. Discussions about bailing countries such as Italy pale into insignificance compared to a problem in the US. Equally from the point of view of the US taxpayer, a sizeable chunk of their taxes is simply going on paying the interest on debts. Indeed governments around the world get into trouble when they end up having to borrow simply to service the debt and thereby create new debt which will, in turn, need to be serviced.

To give this some historical background, the last time the United States was out of debt was during the presidency of Andrew Jackson in the 1830s. What the media refer to as the national debt is the government budget deficit – the national equivalent of the overdraft on a current account. The difference is thinking you’re out of debt because you’ve paid of the overdraft but ignoring the mortgage, the credit cards, the loan on the car and student loans. Clinton paid off the overdraft, Jackson bought the house back; they’re two quite different accomplishments.

Although this debate will focus on paying off the deficit (the overdraft) the other figures are given by way of context. At the time of writing the US Government deficit is running at about $1,300bn ($1.3tn) and has averaged around there in recent years and is predicted to stay at that level for the next few years. This means that, roughly, the government is spending about 10% more than it earns. It doesn’t take into account, for example, that the government owes pension payments that it hasn’t even started paying out but has received payments from workers who will want to collect it at some point in the future.
