The concept of mandatory retirement arises most frequently in debates centring on access to closely integrated, self-regulating professions such as medicine or law, or dangerous or strenuous jobs, including roles in the military, mineral extraction and air traffic control. The principle is simple. Individuals in certain occupations can be required by their employer to stop work at a certain age. Alterations to existing employment laws would enable- or even mandate- employers to expel employees in this way.

A mandatory retirement age is usually justified by reference to the deleterious effects of aging. It is generally accepted that as individuals approach senescence, they will become physically weaker and less mentally agile. In jobs that involve high risk physical or cognitive tasks, such as surgery or military operations, a fleeting loss of strength or concentration could have severely damaging consequences. However, mandatory retirement ages have previously been determined on an arbitrary basis, rather than being dependent on continual assessment of workers’ physical health and mental acuity.

In most western liberal democracies, the armed forces, the medical profession and operators of critical IT systems (such as air traffic controllers) are made subject to mandatory retirement policies. However, the concept of security of tenure that exists within both academia and the judiciary complicates matters somewhat. Justices of the US Supreme Court have life tenure, and cannot be removed from their positions for any reason other than gross misconduct. Despite their vital role in arbitrating on the content of the US’s constitutional documents, it is not unusual for Supreme Court judges to continue working until well into their eighties. Superior Court judges in the United Kingdom are said to be “judicially competent” until they reach their seventieth birthday, at which point they are obliged to retire. The same limit applies to first instance judges in the civil, criminal and high courts, although the retirement age for the general population is 65.

The most significant recent attempt to implement a more wide ranging form of mandatory retirement took place in the United Kingdom in 2006. The UK government implemented secondary legislation (a modification to the law made by the executive with minimal consultation with the legislature) that enabled employers to dismiss any of their employees aged sixty five or over summarily and without redundancy pay. This law was repealed in 2011.
