“Libertarianism, in the strict sense, is the moral view that agents initially fully own themselves and have certain moral powers to acquire property rights in external things. In a looser sense, libertarianism is any view that approximates the strict view.” [i] Libertarianism is a term used so freely that both Ron Paul and Noam Chomsky happily use it to describe themselves – albeit one as a “Libertarian Conservative” and the other as a “Libertarian Socialist”. In light of this fact it would be tempting to assume that the term is about as meaningful as the declarations that politicians and authors support democracy, freedom, truth or, for that matter, the right to wear socks. However, Libertarianism is a philosophy that is applicable to the left or the right and it has meaning rather than simply as a platitude.

That said, Congressman Paul and Professor Chomsky would insist that they have entirely different understandings of the term. In the words of David Freidman, “There may be two libertarians somewhere who agree with one another, but I am not one of them.” There are certainly more definitions of the terms than there are proponents as the briefest attempt to seek out a definition will demonstrate [ii] .

However, for all of the confusion, in political terms it can simply be considered a desire to have as little intervention by others into individuals lives as possible. A libertarian need not give up either his seat in Congress nor his chair at MIT. It would be easy to portray Libertarians as fanatics living in a cabin in Montana with nothing but 15 shotguns, a lifetime’s supply of tinned meat and a stove to keep them warm but the reality could not be further from that stereotype.

The very fact that figures like Ron Paul and Ralph Nader, and it would be hard to find two people more civically engaged or from more different perspectives in traditional terms, can sit down and have a serious conversation about working together suggests that there may be an idea here which transcends the day-to-day squabbling of Washington DC [iii] .

This is not a one off flight of fancy for Rep. Paul. In 2010 he joined forces with Sen. Sanders (I-VT), the only openly socialist member of the Senate to call for an investigation into the Federal Reserve system.

So what could possibly bring together figures like this with laissez-faire businessmen like Michael Badnarik (Libertarian Presidential Candidate in 2004) and Bob Barr (Lib 2008) who, as a Republican Congressman, was one of the most vociferous critics of Clinton and attained prominence as a national figure for his dogged determination to impeach Clinton over the Lewinsky affair.

Libertarianism can be approached from either the left or right but perhaps the best definition is that, regardless of their traditional background, they see the primary role of government and citizens as being to ensure that there is as much space as possible between the interventions of corporations and the state for people to live their lives in. Unsurprisingly those from a background on the right tend to want to push the state away a little more and those from the left tend to focus their attentions on corporations. However, for the most part, both groups would suggest that there is no meaningful distinction between the two; Nader commented on the suggestion that he was spoiling Gore’s chances in the 2000 election "There is a difference between Tweedledum and Tweedledee, but not that much."

Generally Libertarians of all persuasions could sign up to that sentiment.

Their critics would allege that this was a sign that extremists from both wings were huddling together for warmth and votes but with an ever diminishing share of the vote for the two main parties the role of this anti-government and anti-corporate bloc may become a factor in forthcoming elections.

[i]
Vallentyne, Peter, ‘Libertarianism’, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.)

[ii] Critiques of Libertarianism.

[iii] Stephen C. Webster. “Ron Paul, Ralph Nader Agree on ‘Progressive-Libertarian Alliance’”. The Raw Story. 22 January 2011.
