Violence against women is one of the most widespread human rights abuses affecting the world today. Every day, thousands of women and girls are abused and murdered by their families, raped in armed conflicts and attacked for defending woman's rights 1. Many believe there are still violent undercurrents, such as the depiction of violence towards women in some music, which have not allowed women to be truly free from detrimental social norms. Simply stating that VAW (violence against women) is wrong and dealing with situations one by one as they occur is no longer an option as it is such a widespread phenomenon. Violence against women in music is now a global phenomenon, and is common in many of the world's most famous artists. The problem has become even more widespread thanks to the advancements in technology, and in particular the internet which allows the access and sharing of this style of music all over the world. While in most countries films (and to an extent TV shows) are given age ratings such as universal, 12A or R in order to suggest what age group are mature enough to deal with its content, however, so far such a rating system has not been created for music, meaning people of all ages are exposed to many violent images they would not have access to via other forms of media. 2 Yet music videos depicting violence towards women exist and are often unrated, such as Eminem and Rhianna's 'Love the way you lie' 1. This, combined with the ever increasing use of the internet to obtain and share music, shows that there are inconsistencies between the expectations and restrictions put on music and music videos and the expectations and restrictions placed on other forms of media. Also due to common ownership of mp3 players, radios and computing equipment it is harder than ever to keep track of what music children/ young people are listening too. Often genres such as rap and hip-hop are blamed for these misogynistic lyrics, but there are a huge range of songs depicted violence against women from rap to rock to county, and in America, France, the UK and many more (see scrapbook for examples). The discussion of whether music depicting violence against women should be banned creates a platform so that we can begin to discuss if all music depicting any crimes should be banned.

Note: In order to illustrate the examples of violent language towards women in music involves directly quoting from the original source. In many cases this means the examples contain strong and violent language that some may find offensive. However, it seems necessary to keep this language intact in order to properly quote from the source, and also in order to illustrate the extreme nature of violence towards women that is prevalent in these songs.

1 Amnesty International. 'Stop Violence Against Women' 2008 2 Arnold, Bruce, Censorship and Free Speech, Caslon Analytics Guide, December 2007 .
