Almost all countries have, in one form or another, at least one public service broadcaster, These often exist alongside privately owned commercial rivals. Many of these PSBs (Public Service Broadcasters) were created around the 1920’s out of technological necessity rather than ideological preference for public ownership: when many of the PSBs came into existence there were limited transmission wavelengths so regulation was required to provide the utility. This often resulted in the creation of PSBs. It should come as no surprise that these historically-shaped institutions differ significant from country to country, not least in the ways they are organized, regulated and funded. Although there is not one single definition, public service broadcasting commonly refers to good quality content provided to all (universal accessibility) free at point of consumption (affordable). These characteristics underline the fundamental role of PSB in a given society which is to serve the interests of all citizens and enable them to actively participate in the social and political lives within their societies.

In the 21st century the global media landscape is much different from when the PSBs were originally setup. Broadcasting markets are now segmented. Media users have much more choice brought about in part through the advent of digital technologies which have allowed for a greater number of channels to exist. More recently, alongside the increased choice brought about by digital broadcasting, both PSBs and private commercial broadcasting organizations have been also facing challenges from online based services. These services have further fragmented and de-nationalized media markets.

There are three main ways to fund PSBs, each of which has different implications for broadcasting output and editorial decisions. the three main funding methods are: 1) The License Fee/Taxation model as used by the BBC in Britain whereby each household which owns a TV is required to pay a yearly fee to the public-broadcaster which operates independently from Government, 2) The Donation/Underwriter model as used by the American network PBS, whereby the majority of finance is raised by public donations alongside underwriting spots which are paid for by commercial entities; these underwriting spots are displayed at the beginning and end of programming and are subject to strict content limitations. 3) Mixed funding whereby the public service broadcaster relies on a combination of public funds and advertising revenue (usually within limitations) like the ARD and the ZDF in Germany, the KBS in South Korea, and the CBC in Canada.

In a large majority of countries public utilities such as water, electricity, and telecommunications have been entirely privatized. Given this huge amount of privatization of state-owned sectors over the past twenty to thirty years it seems surprising that broadcasting has stood apart from this trend. So should PSBs be sold off or is there something special about PSBs? Is ‘public service content’ synonymous with PSBs? Should current public funding for PSBs be shared across all public service content providers? In short, what is the future of PSBs?
