The US electoral system makes use of primaries to select the presidential candidates for political parties. The system requires candidates to win the backing of individual state parties; the end result is to effectively extend the length of the election campaign by making it a two-stage process. Proponents of the primary system argue that it is a good way for the public to get to know a candidate and they point out that this is particularly useful in an era when the norm has been for state governors to run as candidates. Primaries allow such candidates, who may have a strong profile in their home state but be little known outside it, to capture the public imagination.

Critics argue that they are not democratic. This and some other technical concerns matter because the selected candidates of the two main parties are, realistically, the only available choices for the most important job in the country. There are concerns about the cost of the process, particularly given the amount of time it takes.

Technically the term “primary” refers both to the selection contests organised by the governments of individual states, and to “caucuses”, which are managed privately by political parties themselves. Most primaries do not result in a candidate being directly nominated to contend a presidential election. Usually, a primary will set out the number of delegate votes that candidates will receive from a state party at the democrat or republican national conventions. If a candidate can secure a majority of delegates votes he will win the party’s endorsement for his campaign for the presidency. The majority of state delegates’ votes are decided exclusively by the outcome of primary campaigns. Most delegates cannot vote contrary to the preference expressed by the members of a state party during a primary.

Increasingly there has been a tendency by states and local parties to hold the events earlier and earlier during the election cycle, as this maximises their influence, or so it is believed. Most recently, the Florida Republican party shifted the date of its closed primary to 31 January (breaching party rules to do so). The logic is that candidates are keen to win the early primaries as this gives them momentum going into the later ones. This is based on the belief that voters like to be on the winning side so if one candidate appears to have the selection in the bag, they will support them on that basis. Losses in primaries also serve to highlight weak points in a candidate’s policy position, allowing researchers’ and campaigners to fine tune attacks against their candidate’s opponents in subsequent contests.

Although the first primary (currently the Iowa caucus) is not held until January third of an election year, the campaigns and debates start long before that, and the process goes all the way through to the nominating conventions.

Primaries have also caused a few shocks over the years. For example, Harry S. Truman gave up on his bid for re-election after losing an early primary. They have also proved a good indicator of a candidate’s electability. This is particularly the case in open primaries which are not limited to the members of a particular political party.

The idea of holding one national primary on a single day is not a new one. A bill to establish such an event was first introduced to Congress in 1911. President Wilson backed similar legislation two years later. In total 125 bills on the same subject in the century since.

Proponents of a one-day primary system claim that perfectly capable candidates are excluded if they fail to pick up the nominations of early states. In large part this is because both states that hold their primaries later in an election cycle and donors to candidates’ campaigns tend to follow the early leader. However, critics of the change say that it is unrealistic to expect candidates to raise a huge amount of money and plan a condensed, nationwide election campaign before even a single vote has even been cast.

According to Senator Spencer Abraham it represents the logical conclusion of the ‘reverse leap-frogging of dates. He explains, “the trend of frontloading, which will, in the not too distant future, produce a single national primary day is a disturbing trend that needs attention. To have the selection process essentially come down to a single day of dozens of primaries ensures little to no deliberation on this extremely important decision. It would result in minimal give-and-take on issues such that the succeeding candidate would not be the product of a thoughtful issue discussion."
