“We build prisons to hold people we are afraid of, but fill them with people we are angry at.”

The penalties handed out by the judiciary to convicted criminals are said to serve four objectives – to deter, to rehabilitate, to protect and to punish. Criminal sentencing should deter those contemplating criminal behaviour from carrying out criminal acts; the consequences of being convicted of a criminal act should outweigh any potential gain that act may deliver. A sentence should also serve to address the causes of an individual’s criminal behaviour, and to provide him/her with the training, medical or psychological treatment and understanding of social norms that will ensure he does not resort to criminal activity again. At the very least, a sentence should protect the public by actively preventing a criminal from committing further offences.

The penalties for criminal behaviour available to judges and magistrates in liberal democracies include imprisonment, fines, restorative sentences such as community service, mandatory psychological treatment or addiction treatment and restrictions on freedom of movement and association (including curfews and “gang injunctions”).

Evidence indicates that despite the diversity of sentencing options available, the judiciary relies heavily on imprisonment as a response to criminal activity. This is partly a result of political discourse that plays on the assumption that the threat of imprisonment can deter crime. Politicians who want to give the appearance of tackling crime and social disorder effectively typically increase the length of custodial sentences for certain crimes, and reduce judges’ discretion to award non-custodial sentences.

As a consequence of this trend, prison populations have risen sharply over the past two decades in countries like the United States [i] and the United Kingdom, leading to overcrowding and high ratios of inmates to prison staff. Questions have also arisen over whether custodial sentences are an appropriate response to the behaviour of many types of offender.

It is typical for prisons to be viewed by judiciaries as an adequate punishment and vehicle for rehabilitating violent criminals, who have committed offences such as murder, rape, assault or aggravated muggings. It is not certain that prison is the best environment in which to confront non-violent offenders, such as drug addicts, fraudsters and thieves. Rehabilitation, many argue, is more effective in lowering the risk of re-offending if handled in the community.

[i] Andrews, D.A. &amp; Bonta, J., “Rehabilitating Criminal Justice and Policy” in Psychology, Public Policy and Law (2010, Vol. 16, No.1). Page 39
