Currently the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) based in California administers the technical and policy aspects of the core structure of the internet meaning it coordinates things like the Domain Name System (DNS), Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, space allocation, protocol identifier assignment, generic (gTLD) and country code (ccTLD) Top-Level Domain name system management, and root server system management functions. [1] Just as importantly it defines how the names and numbers of the internet should be organised, so for example in 2010 it allowed top level domain names to be in non-latin script for the first time. [2]

In September 2011 India, Brazil and South Africa following a conference on internet governance began looking to create a coalition of states to control the internet involving the creation of a new global body that would be within the United Nations system. [3] A couple of months later in October the government of India took the next step by proposing the UN Committee for Internet related policies (CIRP) to the United Nations General Assembly. [4]

CIRP is proposed to be a 50 member intergovernmental body with the members “chosen on the basis of equitable geographical representation” and “The CIRP will report directly to the UN General Assembly annually” with its budget likewise from the United Nations but with its research funded by domain registration fees.

“The CIRP shall be mandated to undertake the following tasks:

i. Develop and establish international public policies with a view to ensuring coordination and coherence in cross-cutting Internet-related global issues;

ii. Coordinate and oversee the bodies responsible for technical and operational functioning of the Internet, including global standards setting;

iii. Facilitate negotiation of treaties, conventions and agreements on Internet-related public policies;

iv. Address developmental issues related to the internet;

v. Promote the promotion and protection of all human rights, namely, civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights, including the Right to Development;

vi. Undertake arbitration and dispute resolution, where necessary; and,

vii. Crisis management in relation to the Internet.” [5]

The United Nations is set to decide on the proposal by December 2012 at a meeting which is to be held in Dubai. [6]

N.B. The other proposal of relevance at the time of writing is that internet governance should be handed over to the International Telecommunications Union, as this is an intergovernmental UN agency most of the arguments in this debate will be relevant to this proposal as well.

[1] ‘About Us’, Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, accessed 24 August 2012

[2] Davies, Kim, ‘First IDN ccTLDs now available’, ICANN Blog, 5 May 2010.

[3] Mueller, Milton, ‘India, Brazil and South Africa Call for creation of “new global body” to control the internet’, Internet Governance Project, 17 September 2011.

[4] Mueller, Milton, ‘A United Nations Committee for Internet-related policies? A fair assessment’, Internet Governance Project, 29 October 2011.

[5] ‘Full text: India’s United Nations proposal to control the Internet’, IBNLive, 21 May 2012.

[6] Chandrasekhar, Rajeev, ‘An assault on freedom’, The Times of India, 13 June 2012.
