The internet and social networks have come to be the core weapon in the arsenal of dissidents when they engage in uprising against oppressive or illiberal regimes. By use of social networks and other social media like Twitter, these activists have been able to coordinate broad action and to communicate their message and the spirit of dissent through populations. This was the case during the Arab Spring, where social media were vital in the overthrow of regimes in Egypt and Tunisia, with activists and protesters using these tools to spread information and organize.

A problem with this form of organizing has proven, however, to be its lack of anonymity. Governments have been able to root out dissidents and punish them for daring to stand up to the authorities. Thus for example in the Egyptian revolution promanent bloggers such as 'sandmonkey' were arrested and beaten up. 1 Some services currently exist to provide an aegis of anonymity to activists, such as the software developed by the Tor Project 2 which was used to some effect in Egypt. But these projects are insufficient as yet to meet the demand of activists, since activists in states where uprisings occur rarely have money to make the development of these programs profitable or economical.

The question of what Western governments should play in enabling anonymity for activists is hotly debated. The suggestion that they produce, or subsidize the private production of, software to lend anonymity to dissidents involved in uprisings has been put forward in a number of channels. Most notably Secretary of State Clinton said “The United States continues to help people in oppressive internet environments get around filters, stay one step ahead of the censors, the hackers, and the thugs who beat them up or imprison them for what they say online” and committed $25million “to support a burgeoning group of technologists and activists working at the cutting edge of the fight against internet repression.” 3 The sums involved may be reletively small bit the impact is potentially much larger.

1 Moran, R., “Noted Egyptian blogger Sandmonkey apparently arrested (update: Sandmonkey Released)”, American Thinker, 3 February 2011. http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2011/02/noted_egyptian_blogger_sandmon.html

2 “Tor: Overview”, Tor. https://www.torproject.org/about/overview.html.en

3 Clinton, H., ‘Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Speech on Internet Freedom *updated*’, Secretaryclinton, 15 February 2011, http://secretaryclinton.wordpress.com/2011/02/15/secretary-of-state-hillary-clintons-speech-on-internet-freedom/
