Editor's Note: The article below has been retained as a guide to the debates that preceded further NATO expansion in 2004 (Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Slovakia) and 2009 (Albania and Croatia). The reader can judge whether the arguments used below were an accurate prediction of the benefits and drawbacks of NATO expansion. This debate has been partially updated so that it can be useful for any potential new members. In 2011, the key issue of NATO expansion is whether the alliance should take in Ukraine and Georgia, both of which are seen by Russia as being close neighbours in which it has a key strategic interest; there is a separate Debatabase topic on this.

The decision whether to enlarge the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation from its membership of 19 States to include the States of Eastern Europe, the Baltic and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) stems from the admission of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary at the Madrid summit of the alliance in 1997. The subsequent 50th anniversary summit in Washington DC in April 1999 brought strong statements of support for NATO enlargement. In adherence to the pledge made in the Republican Party’s ‘Contract for America’, President Bush maintained the impetus for enlargement through speeches made during his official trip to Europe in June 2001. In response, NATO Secretary General George Robertson has affirmed further enlargement at the 2002 Prague summit inviting a further seven countries to start talks on NATO membership; Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Romania. The expansion continued with invitations to Croatia and Albania in 2008. At the same time Ukraine and Georgia were also told they will eventually be able to become members.

The debate has received more critical attention in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Russia holds a pivotal role in the alliance against terrorism and evinced significant willingness to cooperate with American strategy and now forms a vital supply link to NATO forces in Afghanistan. The question is whether the US and NATO States are prepared to risk this novel alliance of convenience for the enlargement of their Cold War one. The discussion turns on the persuasiveness of the threat posed by Russia now and in the future, and conversely the view taken of the stability of the myriad republics of the CIS

Although NATO enlargement eastwards is temporarily further down the agenda there are still countries that could join; Ireland, Switzerland, Austria, Sweden and Finland have all been unwilling due to commitments to neutrality. Further East Ukraine and Georgia may eventually join and NATO’s Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council includes states as far east as Kyrgyzstan.
