The question Tibet's status vis a vis China has been a major international political debate ever since the Chinese government occupied the territory in 1949. A large number of activists continue to call for independence, while the Beijing typically advocates for the status quo of fairly centralized Chinese government control. The Dalai Lama has proposed a "middle way" between these extremes. This would see Tibet accorded a greater level of autonomy, while allowing for Chinese sovereignty over Tibet’s territory and borders to continue. The Central Tibetan Administration's proposal, which reflects the views of the Dalai Lama, included below.

The Middle-Way Approach has been proposed by the Dalai Lama in an effort peacefully resolve the controversies surrounding the status of Tibet, and to bring about stability and respectful co-existence between the Tibetan and Chinese peoples. The “third way” is also a policy adopted democratically by the Central Tibetan Administration and the Tibetan people through a series of discussions held over a long time.

Important Components of the Middle-Way Approach:

1. Without seeking independence for Tibet, the Central Tibetan Administration strives for the creation of a political entity comprising the three traditional provinces of Tibet;

2. Such an entity should enjoy a status of genuine national regional autonomy;

3. This autonomy should be governed by the popularly-elected legislature and executive through a democratic process and should have an independent judicial system;

4. As soon as the above status is agreed upon by the Chinese government, Tibet would not seek separation from, and remain within, the People's Republic of China;

5. Until the time Tibet is transformed into a zone of peace and non-violence, the Chinese government can keep a limited number of armed forces in Tibet for its protection;

6. The Central Government of the People’s Republic of China has the responsibility for the political aspects of Tibet’s international relations and defence, whereas the Tibetan people should manage all other affairs pertaining to Tibet, such as religion and culture, education, economy, health, ecological and environmental protection;

7. The Chinese government should stop its policy of human rights violations in Tibet and the transfer of Chinese population into Tibetan areas;

8. To resolve the issue of Tibet, His Holiness the Dalai Lama shall take the main responsibility of sincerely pursuing negotiations and reconciliation with the Chinese government.
