What is ACTA?

The intention behind the creation of ACTA is to allow countries to work together to tackle intellectual property violations which are currently taking place on a large scale across the world. It creates international standards for the enforcement of intellectual property rights and does this through the creation of a legal framework. [i]

The agreement itself is an international trade agreement that was signed in October 2011, but as a trade agreement it does not become law until ratified by the signatories and this will involve the countries legislatures that have so far not passed the agreement.

The treaty itself is contentious, as will be explained later, here are some areas that have raised particular controversy:

Encouraging enforcement by third parties;

8:1 Each Party shall provide that…its judicial authorities have the authority to issue an order against a party to desist from an infringement, and inter alia, an order to that party or, where appropriate, to a third party”

Pressurising Internet Service providers:

27:4 that Party shall ensure that criminal liability for aiding and abetting is available under its law

Bias towards business;

27:3 Each Party shall endeavour to promote cooperative efforts within the business community to effectively address trademark and copyright or related rights infringement

The creation of a committee, effectively a new international organization in article 36 to;

(a) review the implementation and operation of this Agreement;

(b) consider matters concerning the development of this Agreement;

(c) consider any proposed amendments to this Agreement in accordance with Article 42 (Amendments);

(d) decide, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 43 (Accession), upon the terms of accession to this Agreement of any Member of the WTO; and

(e) consider any other matter that may affect the implementation and operation of this Agreement. [ii]

Notes

A guide to the likely approach of both sides to this debate is clarified by where various organizations have lined up. pharmaceutical companies and major studios, for example, have lined up on one side with, mostly, civil society groups on the other – Doctors Without Borders, Consumers International and the Electronic Frontier Foundation have been notable opponents.

Generally speaking debates have focused on two areas;

The actual contents of the conversation themselves and whether they represent an assault of freedom of speech purely in favour of corporate interests or whether they represent a much needed protection of Intellectual Property in a globalised and Internet-driven age.

The process of the negotiation of the agreement has also been the source of great controversy as it has taken place in secret been dominated by the major economies and TNCs, while excluding developing nations, most NGOs and the general public. While it is part of the reason for the opposition the process of negotiation is not particularly relevant to whether a state should ratify which should be based on the merits of the treaty.

Many creative industries have focused on the issue of protecting intellectual property such as music, books and movies on the Internet. Pharmaceutical companies see it as a vital response to generic medicines – by contrast many doctors argue doing so will limit access to medicine in the developing world.

To take a famous example, following the EU Commission’s signing of the treaty – on behalf of its member states – a plenary session of the European Parliament subsequently, and overwhelmingly, rejected the move [iii] .

For the most part proponents of the measure cite practical benefits for wealth-generating corporations, opponents question whether it represents an infringement of human rights and set it within a wider context of international legislation that, some say, refer the rights of corporations to those of people.

The agreement will come into force after six nations have ratified it and would then apply to those nations that had ratified it at that point. As things stand, none have ratified the agreement; of the 31 who have signed it 22 are members of the EU.

Debaters’ Note

This guide sets out several arguments from different perspectives. Realistically, any one of them, on both sides, could be expanded into an entirely new case in its own right. As such the debate only provides a very brief overview of the main reasons why proponents want ACTA and opponents are against. This debate is much easier in a judged competition than in a public debate – for the same reason that that governments have signed but parliaments won’t ratify; persuading people to trust Disney and Glaxo Smith Klein rather than Medecine Sans Frontier is not an easy sell. The medical aspect of the debate is the strongest argument for both sides as they can both take the moral high ground. Proposition can demonstrate that medical research requires the incentive of pharmaceutical companies making profits and Opposition can show that there is genuine concern among the global medical community about the shortage of medicines in the developing world.

[i] European Commission, ‘ACTA – Anti-counterfeiting Trade Agreement’, 4 July 2012.

[ii] Council of the European Union, ‘Anti Counterfeiting Trade Agreement’, 23 August 2011.

[iii] BBC News. ACTA Controversial Anti-Piracy Agreement Rejected by EU. 4 July 2012.
