In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness where the issuer, in this case the government or the European Union, is indebted to the holder (a form of loan). The terms may vary but the issuer is obliged to pay the holder interest and/or to repay the holder at a later date, termed the maturity which can often be as long as thirty years. Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals (semiannual, annual, sometimes monthly). Bonds provide the borrower with funds to finance long-term investments, or, in the case of government bonds, to finance current expenditure.

The suggestion for European bonds (Eurobonds) is that government bonds for the Eurozone should be issued in Euros jointly by the 17 Eurozone nations. The holder is therefore giving money to the Eurozone bloc altogether, which then forwards the money to individual governments, rather than each individual government issuing its own bonds.

Since the beginning of the crisis, countries tried to resolve the problem with the help of bailouts provided the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) or its predecessors. The ESM is an international organization established on 27 September 2012 that will cover any new bailouts it will ensure that member governments have access to money by providing instant access to financial assistance for member states in financial difficulty. It has a maximum lending capacity of €500 billion. This however is regarded by many simply as a stopgap to cover any new crises rather than a long term solution.

In the Status Quo, sovereign-bonds are issued by national governments with an interest rate that is different from country to country, making them affordable for countries like Germany or The Netherlands but extremely expensive for Greece, Spain, Italy and others. For example Greece has an interest rate of 8.47% on its yields, while Germany is at 1.86%. Eurobonds will still be issued by national governments with full responsibility for the loan but they will have to be backed by the European Central Bank (ECB) and will be listed on the market as one product, with a singular interest rate.
