The war in Iraq is likely to be remembered for decades, if not centuries, as the defining conflict of the early 21 st century. The effect it had not only in the nation and country itself in radicalizing an entire generation as well as the toxic effect it had on those politicians most closely associated with it may well stand as a legacy to how not to fight a war.

However, as the original reasons for going in fade into history – and they were never that clear in the first place – the issue of what has been accomplished becomes an interesting one. It would be foolish to assert that everything went according to plan, and proposition will have to demonstrate benefits from some unusual sources. However unlikely it may seem, such benefits do exist.

The first and most obvious one is that Saddam Hussein, and his genocidal regime, is no longer in power. Instead there is, by the standards of the region, a democratic, relatively stable and relatively transparent nation state. It may not be Switzerland but the difference between the country the allies entered and the one they are leaving could not be clearer.

Equally, although it will come as little consolation to the families of those who have died the knowledge gained about how wars in the 21 st century need to be fought can be used to save lives in the future. Especially given the instability of the Middle East as a whole and the growing scarcity of oil, it seems unlikely that this is the last desert war the West will be fighting in the decades to come.

Equally, the impact it had on the West is instructive. When Britain and France chose to intervene in Libya, Sarkosy and Cameron did so in the shadow of Baghdad and the difference in their approach could not have been more different from the gung-ho, militaristic approach taken by Blair and Bush. Instead they adopted very clear goals, were very clear on the need for indigenous allies, and refused to put boots on the ground. It seems that they acknowledged that their electorates would not stomach another war conducted along the lines of Iraq.

It would stretch credulity to suggest that there is a direct link between the fall of Baghdad and the Arab Spring. However, that synchronicity of the two events may ultimately prove beneficial. The Middle East would have been a lonely place for a democratic state and now there are at least a handful to build upon.

Although the cost in lives – lost and broken – is almost too ghastly to contemplate and the effects on the economies of all concerned has been devastating, there are some positives that have come out of the conflict. Benefits that would not be available with Saddam left in power. The balance of probability now seems to be that the future generations living in a free and democratic Iraq will give thanks to those who died to start the nation on its long road to freedom.
