It is clear that there are a lot of very serious issues that the African governments have to solve when dealing with the threats to the population’s security. Security can be narrowly or broadly defined but even when narrowly defined as protection against physical harms, such as military attacks coming from government forces or military juntas, poverty is still an issue that has a security impact. The global poverty line is $1.25 a day and the rate of poverty in 2010 was less than half the 1990 rate. 700 million fewer people lived in conditions of extreme poverty in 2010 than in 1990. However, at the global level 1.2 billion people are still living in extreme poverty (1). Although in absolute numbers there are more people in poverty in South Asia it is Sub Saharan Africa which has the highest rate of poverty relative to the size of the population with 48.5% of the population in poverty.(2) So although poverty has diminished, it is still a very pressing issue.

Is poverty Africa’s biggest security issue or is there another problem that is a bigger threat to public safety? Poverty does have consequences for security; it leaves people vulnerable to terrorist attacks and may encourage people to join terrorist organisations, something that is even more pronounced with piracy, banditry and rebellions. However even if it is a security issue it may be considered to be a diminishing one as the continent is becoming richer. Perhaps the most obvious alternative general explanation for conflict in Africa are ethno-religious divides. There are tensions for resources and power between ethnicities and religion often adds to the volatile mix. While there is no one overarching problem that if it is solved will somehow solve all of Africa’s problems identifying the general causes of conflicts is important in working out how to avoid such conflict in the future. The solution to the problem will be very different if poverty is the main problem compared to if ethnicity and religion is.

(1)’Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty’, United Nations,2013, http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/poverty.shtml

(2) The World Bank, ‘Poverty’, data.worldbank.org, 2013, http://data.worldbank.org/topic/poverty

N.B. While this debate is about Africa it is also a general debate that can apply everywhere with similar conditions of poverty and a diversity of religions and ethnic groups. The examples for this debate are drawn from a wide range of countries some of which are outside of Africa.
