The last few years have seen a renewed enthusiasm for atheism and secularism in much of the world and debates between believers and non-believers have become ever more vigorous. One distinction that is frequently made, particularly by theists, is that between faith and religion. Whether such a distinction is meaningful or relevant does not fall within the purview of this debate, which focusses entirely on religion in the ordinary meaning of the word. In addition it will focus primarily on the Abrahamic religions (Christianity, Islam and Judaism) purely on the basis that they represent the largest of the world’s religious traditions.

Debates on religious issues are notoriously challenging because the burdens of proof can vary hugely and the term covers so many traditions and so many exceptions- that there always seems to be a counterfactual available to any evidence-based argument. Take, for example, the well publicised and widely discussed Roman Catholic prohibition on contraception. From a purely secular perspective, the decision makes no medical sense. However, from a religious standpoint it encourages abstinence and faithfulness, which are seen as valuable normative goals in and of themselves.

It would be wrong to ignore the fact that debates on religious issues also have a tendency to be heated and, in the case of public debates, can be frustrating because of the reluctance of anyone in the room to criticise their own views. However, precisely because of these factors, discussions on the value of religion for excellent training and competitive debate topics. Debates on religion compel speakers and adjudicators not only to question their own views but to focus on the structure of arguments themselves, rather than relying on frameworks of assumed knowledge, as can often be the case in political debates.

Usually, debates on this motion run along the lines of the impact of religious organizations on various moral issues and the groups affected by them. Abortion, gay marriage, women’s rights and others tend to come up. A common theme also tends to be the extent to which organisations are responsible for the actions of individuals who profess that particular faith. There is a frequent claim that religions- or the organisations that represent them- get to pick and choose. As a result, the argument goes, Islam is not responsible for terrorist atrocities nor is the Catholic Church culpable for child sex abuse. It’s an interesting distinction and one that is likely to exercise both sides of the debate.

Efforts to play the same argument the other way around against secularism do not really work, as it is difficult to find an instance of acts comparable to religiously sponsored intolerance being committed as a direct result of the actions of secularism. Opposition teams often resort to the use of examples that break Goodwin’s law. A desperate opposition team may discuss that securalist or atheist tendencies of Hitler and Stalin – although rarely to any effect.

Ultimately this is a debate that is all about defining the parameters of discussion. It is all too easy for it to degenerate into general assertions about charity and bigotry and yet there is plenty of fact on both sides.
