Wikipedia is a free online encyclopaedia produced entirely by the voluntary efforts of hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world. It was founded in by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger in 2001, after an earlier effort to build a traditional “expert” encyclopaedia online got bogged down in the slow complexities of academic review and professional editing. Instead Wikipedia adopted wiki software, which allows groups of people to cooperate dynamically in writing and editing material online. To many people’s surprise, this open-access approach was a rapid success, attracting many high-quality submissions from a wide range of contributors. This was despite (or because of) online warfare between rival volunteers who sought to edit and reedit entries.

As of May 2011 the English-language Wikipedia site has over 3.6 million articles; adding in entries from versions in other languages raises the total to over 9.25 million. Proponents argue it has rapidly become an indispensable reference for anyone seeking information and is one of the most heavily visited sites on the internet. It has become particularly heavily used by students at school and college, to the concern of some educationalists but the applause of others. Nevertheless, from the start Wikipedia has had its critics, with co-founder Larry Sanger leaving the project early over the direction of the site. Past and present editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica have criticised Wikipedia for inaccuracy, arguing that its democratic ethos lacks academic rigour and provides no guarantee that any entry can be relied upon though a study in the science journal Nature found that the two encyclopaedias have similar levels of error [1] . Others have criticised the agenda of the site, and the way in which its rules for contributors (including the famous “Neutral Point of View,” or NPOV) are applied in practice. Despite a number of well-publicised scandals, however, proponents maintain the site has continued to grow, both in size and in importance.

[1] Giles, J. (2005, December 15). Special Report: Internet encyclopaedias go head to head. Retrieved May 11, 2011, from Nature: http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v438/n7070/full/438900a.html
