Puerto Rico, officially the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, is a self-governing unincorporated territory of the United States located in the north-eastern Caribbean. The United States conquered Puerto Rico from the Spanish in 1898 when Puerto Rico became an unincorporated U.S. territory meaning it is controlled by the United States but only selected parts of the constitution apply. [1] Many believe that Puerto Rico should move beyond its status as a territory to become a state within the United States of America. While a majority of Puerto Ricans have voted for continued status as a territory, there are rising calls for statehood. The main questions include whether it is important for Puerto Ricans to gain full rights as citizens, and whether statehood is a superior means to achieving this than independence. Others include whether Puerto Rico will gain economically from statehood (verses the status quo and independence). Socially and culturally, is Puerto Rico consistent with the characteristics that have defined other states entering the United States, such as Alaska or Hawaii? Will English be the primary language, or a co-official language along with Spanish? And this raises the question, is English the only possible official language possible in a US state - as English-only advocates would have it - or is it possible to have another language as an official language as well? Are there cultural concerns for Puerto Ricans who have a strong national identity? Finally, will Democrats or Republicans benefit more politically from Puerto Rican statehood? Is there a self-motivated bias coming from American politicians pushing for Puerto Rican statehood?

Although Puerto Rico voted in November 2012 to become a state this does not end the debate. President Obama has promised to respect the will of the islanders on the issue so removing one possible obstacle but there is still the US Congress to negotiate. Congress only needs a simple majority in both Houses but that may not be simple as Republicans assume the new state would be Democrat and currently control the House. [2] The referendum is also less clear than it might be as although 54% voted for change on a first question the option of statehood got less than 50% of all voters if those who voted on the first question but not on the second are counted. [3]

[1] Definitions of insular area political organisations, Office of Insular Affairs

[2] Keating, Joshua, ‘Should we be making room for a new star on the flag?’, Foreign Policy, 7 November 2012.

[3] AP, ‘Puerto Ricans favour statehood, poll shows’, guardian.co.uk, 8 November 2012 .
