The Case: Pussy Riot, Putin's Russia and the Orthodox Church

Was punk band Pussy Riot’s anti-Putin performance in a Moscow church 'religious hatred hooliganism' or an artistic form of political dissent? Olga Shvarova considers the case.

On 21 February 2012, the all-female punk group Pussy Riot performed a song in front of the altar at the Russian Orthodox Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow. The song was inspired by a prayer to the Holy Virgin and asked for Putin’s removal from office with the aid of divine power. In March, three members of the band were arrested on charges of “hooliganism on the grounds of religious hatred”, detained without trial, and now face up to seven years in prison. The band members were presented with formal charges in July 2012, and their pre-trial detention was extended by six months. All three women were recognised as political prisoners by Amnesty International .

Public opinion in Russia was divided over this case. The head of the Russian Orthodox Church Patriarch Kirill condemned the band for blasphemy, and polls show that 42% of Muscovites agreed with him. Many others considered the offence minor and the actions of authorities excessive and arbitrary. An open letter calling for the immediate release of three Pussy Riot members was signed by a diverse range of Russian elites including supporters of Putin and members of the political opposition. In August 2012 the three band members were sentenced to two years in jail.

Olga Sharova's opinion

Just as Igor Sutyagin was sent to a penal colony for 15 years for a crime he did not commit, these women have not committed the crimes they are accused of. The lyrics of their song expressed no religious hatred, or hatred towards any religious group. Their performance was an artistic form of political dissent and should not have been considered a criminal offence in a democratic society. Some Muscovites found Pussy Riot’s performance very upsetting and said it constituted antisocial behaviour, which can be punishable by fine and/or detention of up to 15 days. Unfortunately for the band members, the government also took offence. I suspect if the subject of their song was, say, the leader of the opposition, Pussy Riot would have been charged with a fine and sent home within 24 hours.

There is another aspect to Pussy Riot’s case worth mentioning here. The Russian Orthodox Church seemed to endorse the government’s infringement of free speech and severe punishment for the band’s performance, which in effect was a political statement, offensive not to the Church but to the head of state. There was a blasphemous phrase in the lyrics of the song concerning God, a vulgar swear word, but one that is commonly used in everyday speech. The Church’s attempt to invoke blasphemy in this case looks more like support for the head of state than a response to any actual offence to religion.

- Olga Shvarova

Read more case studies about freedom of speech in Russia and other similar cases on Free Speech Debate
